Periodic Façade Inspection (PFI) FAQs

S/N Subject                                                       Questions & Answers

1 (A) Periodic Façade Inspection                                   Q1 – Q5
2 (B) Person Responsible to Carry out Periodic Façade Inspection  Q6 – Q18
3 (C) Buildings Affected by Façade Inspection Regime              Q19 – Q20
4 (D) Frequency of Periodic Façade Inspection                     Q21 – Q31
5 (E) Use of Technology for Inspection                            Q32 – Q34
6 (F) Fallen Façade Statistics and Person Responsible             Q35 – Q36
7 (G) Others                                                      Q37 – Q41

(A) PERIODIC FAÇADE INSPECTION

Q1 Why did BCA decide to introduce a Periodic Façade Inspection (PFI) regime and
         when will PFI take effect?

A1 As buildings age, their façades experience wear and tear. A façade inspection regime
         will enable early detection of tell-tale signs of deteriorating façade materials and its
         connections, allowing the building owner to carry out repairs before it fails.
         The periodic façade inspection regime will commence from 1st January 2022.

Q2 What does the Periodic Facade Inspection (PFI) process involve?
A2 PFI may differ slightly from building to building, and would likely involve the following:

             • Visual inspection of the condition of the entire (100%) building façade elements
                  from ground level or other available vantage points and openings, which may be
                  done using photographic cameras whereby photographs or still images of the
                  entire façade may be taken. Drones or similar unmanned aircraft designed for
                  aerial survey may be used with prior approval from the Commissioner of Building
                  Control (CBC).

             • After the 100% visual inspection, the Competent Person (CP) is required to
                  perform a 10% close-range inspection on each building face (elevation) to assess
                  the condition of the façade using appropriate tools such as tapping rods and
                  scanning devices that do not require any special training to operate or use;

             • Recommend any remedial measures to be carried out;

             • For building’s with widespread or potential systemic defects observed, the CP
                  can recommend a full facade investigation of localised areas or the whole
                  building for BCA’s consideration and approval. Prior approval from CBC is
                  required before the proposed full façade investigation is performed.

Q3 What does a full façade investigation under Periodic Facade Inspection (PFI)
         entail?

A3 Competent Person (CP) needs to obtain approval from the Commissioner of Building
         Control (CBC) before proceeding with the full façade investigation works. The Full
         investigation generally involves:

             • Performing close-range inspection at additional locations;

             • To ascertain the causes of extensive defects and carry out design check with
                  calculation and structural plans with due diligence;

             • On-site and/or laboratory tests to verify the façade condition, strength of the
                  façade materials and extent of the defects, if deemed necessary;

             • Exposing concealed façade elements (e.g. brackets for curtain wall system), or
                  the removal of façade panels to assess the condition of the panels based on CP’s
                  professional judgement;

             • Recommending any repairs to be carried out in order to restore the integrity of
                  the building’s façade;

             • Where the repair involves any structural elements or building works, the structural
                  plan approval and permit to commence works are to be obtained prior to
                  commencing the repairs, if applicable. A Professional Engineer (PE), if the CP is
                  not a PE, shall be engaged for this purpose.

Q4 Who is a Competent Person (CP) and are they assisted by others when
         conducting PFI?

A4 A CP is either a Professional Engineer (PE) or Registered Architect (RA) that has
         attended and successfully completed the course titled “Certificate in Façade Inspection”
         conducted by BCAA and IESA currently. The CP could be assisted by Façade
         Inspectors in carrying out the inspection.

         Façade Inspectors can be a Resident Engineer, Resident Technical Officer or any other
         person who possesses the relevant qualification that is specified by BCA.

Q5 What if I refuse to conduct Periodic Façade Inspection (PFI) upon receiving the
         inspection notice?

A5 Upon receipt of the PFI Notice, the owner of the building must appoint a Competent
         Person (CP) within 2 months after the date of the façade inspection notice.

         The building owner who fails to appoint a CP within the above period, shall be guilty of
         an offence and shall be liable of a conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000.

(B) PERSON RESPONSIBLE TO CARRY OUT PERIODIC FAÇADE INSPECTION

Q6 Who is the person responsible for carrying out Periodic Façade Inspections
        (PFIs)?

A6 Building owners will be served with a notice to have their building’s facade inspected.
        Upon receipt of the notice, they are required to appoint a Competent Person to carry out
        the inspection of their building’s façade, to submit a report to BCA within the stipulated
        timeline and follow up with the recommended repair works.

Q7 What happens after my Competent Person (CP) submits the inspection report?

A7 BCA will vet through the report and may seek clarification from the CP with regards to
         the contents of the report. The CP is required to respond to clarifications and, where the
         situation warrants, BCA may also conduct a joint site inspection of the building and
         request for the CP to conduct a presentation to BCA.

         Upon the acceptance of the report, BCA will write to the Owner to follow up with the
         recommendations of the CP on the defects detected. You must carry out the remedial
         works within such period as the Commissioner of Building Control may specify, to
         prevent further deterioration of the building façade and thereafter submit the CP’s
         certification on the completion of the remedial works, where applicable.

Q8 I am a building owner. What do I need to do when I receive a Periodic Facade
         Inspection (PFI) Notice?

A8 BCA will serve Owners with a Notice of Inspection when the building is due for Periodic
         Facade Inspection (PFI). You can play your part by:

    • Appointing a Competent Person (CP) promptly.

         List of CPs can be downloaded from:
         https://www1.bca.gov.sg/regulatory-info/building-control/periodic-façade-inspection-pfi

    • Providing access to the perimeter of the building to be inspected by your CP;

    • Providing the necessary access system such as suspended working platform/gondola,
         mobile elevating work platform or scaffold or a combination of these to carry out the
         close-range facade inspection;

    • Providing a set of approved plans and façade drawings;

    • Providing information on the maintenance and history of the building’s facade,
         particularly on the façade’s repair work been carried out in the past e.g. water ingress
         etc.;

    • Providing previous periodic inspection reports (if available) for reference;

    • Carrying out rectification works and/or monitoring of defects highlighted by your CP
         promptly;

    • Maintaining your building façade in good condition at all times.

Q9 Can my Competent Person (CP) purchase a set of my building’s building plans
         on my behalf for the purpose of Periodic Facade Inspection (PFI)?

A9 Yes, your CP can make an application on your behalf via https://go.gov.sg/n8fz6e

         The CP would need to attach the Documentary Proof of Ownership of property (latest
         property tax bill, Title Deed or Notice of Transfer) when making the application.

Q10 What should I do if my Competent Person (CP) cannot find any document on my
         building?

A10 If there is no information or document available on the building façade, the CP shall
         carry out the review based on the appropriate Standards and Codes of Practices
         (applicable to Singapore) at the time of installation for the building façade with reference

         to the date of issue of the Temporary Occupation Permit, Certificate of Statutory
         Completion or other available relevant documents

Q11 Can I engage a different Competent Person (CP) for the full façade investigation?

A11 Yes, you can engage any CP who has no professional nor financial interest in the
         building. You should notify BCA within 7 days on the change of CP and submit the
         appointment form. When a new CP is appointed to continue with the façade inspection
         or investigation process at any point in time, he/she shall review and take into
         consideration the earlier findings by the former CP before continuing.

Q12 If the Competent Person (CP) engaged by the management corporation (MCST)
         of my building did not inspect my unit’s facade, can I request that he inspect my
         unit?

A12 Yes, you can request through the management corporation for the appointed CP to
         inspect your unit’s facade, subjected to the CP’s discretion and MCST’s arrangement.

Q13 I have appointed a Competent Person (CP) but he never seems to come in person
         to inspect my building. Is this allowed?

A13 Your appointed CP is expected to carry out a comprehensive visual inspection and
         close-range inspection based on his engineering judgement and assessment. He is
         expected to take active and personal interest in the planning and carrying out of the
         inspection of the building. However, he may be assisted in the physical work of
         inspection by a façade inspector(s).

Q14 Can I engage any facade inspector to inspect my building facade?

A14 No. You can only engage a Competent Person (CP) who has no professional nor
         financial interest in the building. For example, a Professional Engineer (C&S) or
         Registered Architect would be considered as having a professional or financial interest
         if he was responsible for the design or construction of the building or any part of the
         building works. The CP may be assisted by a façade inspector. However, the CP
         remains ultimately responsible for the inspection and assessment of the inspection
         findings and condition of the building facade.

Q15 Can accredited laboratories undertake the close-range inspection? Can the
         Competent Person (CP) delegate the inspection duty to the testing laboratories?

A15 The CP can engage testing laboratories to assist in carrying out the close-range
         inspections, subjected to prior approval from the Commissioner of Building Control
         (CBC). However, both the visual and close-range façade inspections must be attended
         by the CP personally or his façade inspector (who is directly under the CP’s control and
         supervision).The CP remains ultimately responsible for the inspection and assessment
         of the inspection findings and condition of the building facade.

Q16 I am an individual unit owner of a building with multiple owners (but the building
         is not subdivided and managed by a management corporation (MCST)
         established under the Land Titles (Strata) Act). Can I appoint my own Competent
         Person (CP) to inspect my unit’s facade? What are the required conditions for
         such an appointment?

A16 No, owners of a building (that is not subdivided and managed by a management
         corporation (MCST) established under the Land Titles (Strata) Act) must jointly appoint
         a CP to inspect the building’s facade within the stipulated timeframe. The appointed CP
         must inspect the building facade and submit the inspection report to BCA.

Q17 The appointed Competent Person (CP) has completed the façade inspection; how
        does he submit the report to BCA?

A17 The CP is required to submit the façade inspection report and all subsequent
        correspondences via CORENET e-Submission System

Q18 What happens if my Competent Person (CP) fails to conduct the façade inspection
        in accordance with the requirements of the Building Control Act and Regulations?

A18 The CP would be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
        exceeding $50,000.

(C) BUILDINGS AFFECTED BY FAÇADE INSPECTION REGIME

Q19 Who and which buildings will be affected by the implementation of façade
         inspection regime?

A19 Periodic Façade Inspection (PFI) regime applies to buildings aged 20 years and older
        and over 13 metres in height. Detached, semi-detached, terraced or linked houses
        which are used for residential purposes and temporary buildings, are excluded from the
        regime.
        Nevertheless, building owners should still carry out routine building façade maintenance
        even without a PFI Notice. When façade defects or deterioration are identified, owners
        are advised to engage a Competent Person, appropriate qualified person or specialist
        to investigate and propose rectification measures. Building owners are encouraged to
        carry out the recommended rectification works immediately.

Q20 I received the Periodic Facade Inspection (PFI) Notice to an address where there
        is a combination of buildings that are above 13 metres and less than 13 metres,
        are the buildings less than 13 metres exempted?

A20 Building owners will be required to conduct periodic façade inspections on all buildings
        to which the PFI regime applies, at the address specified in a PFI Notice. The PFI regime
        does not apply to buildings the highest point of which is 13 metres or lower when
        measured from the ground.

(D) FREQUENCY OF PERIODIC FAÇADE INSPECTION

Q21 How often is my building required to have its façade inspected?
A21 Buildings are required to undergo Periodic Façade Inspection every 7 years.

Q22 I understand that there is currently a requirement for Periodic Structural
        Inspection (PSI) of buildings. Is Periodic Façade Inspection (PFI) similar to the
        existing PSI? Can PFI be incorporated into the current PSI regime?

A22 The scope and inspection requirements of PFI is different from PSI. PSI covers only
        structural elements such as columns, beams and flat slabs, and an assessment on
        whether there is any overloading. Conversely, building facades are generally made up
        of non-structural elements such as cement plasters, tiles, bricks and glass.

        For PSI, since the inspection is on structural elements, it must be conducted by a
        Structural Engineer. However, for PFI, since the inspection is of the building façade, it
        can be conducted by a Competent Person.

Q23 My building just completed Periodic Structural Inspection (PSI). Can its Periodic
        Facade Inspection (PFI) be exempted?

A23 No, the scope of PSI and PFI regimes are different. PSI involves the inspection of the
        entire building’s structural system to ensure that the building is structurally sound for
        continued occupation. PFI involves the inspection of the façade of a building to ensure
        that public safety will not be compromised due to deteriorated facades that may fall from
        height.

Q24 My building is presently undergoing Repair and Redecoration works (R&R). Can I
        defer the Periodic Facade Inspection (PFI)?

A24 Most R&R works do not focus on the inspection of façade conditions and the submission
        of inspection report by Competent Persons as required under the PFI regulations.
        However, building owners could write in to BCA for the deferment, and we will review
        on a case-by-case basis.

Q25 If only some part of my building façade were refurbished recently, do I need to
        carry out Periodic Facade Inspection (PFI)?

A25 Yes, if only some parts of the façade were refurbished, the building is still required to
        carry out PFI.

Q26 I have the intention to carry out recladding works for my building in the near
        future. Can the Periodic Facade Inspection (PFI) be postponed?

A26 You can write to BCA with the routine maintenance work done and timeline of upcoming
        recladding works for the building and we will review on a case-by-case basis.

Q27 I have the intention to demolish my building in the near future. Can it be exempted
        from Periodic Façade inspection (PFI)?

A27 You can write to BCA to inform the date of your planned demolition for our consideration.
        You should also inform us when the building has been demolished so that notices would
        not be issued to the said building in future.

Q28 I am in the process of selling my building. Can it be exempted from Periodic Façade
       Inspection (PFI)?

A28 The building still needs to be inspected. However, if the buyer agrees to comply with our
       Notice of Inspection, please inform us of this agreement, and we will consider holding the
       buyer accountable for complying with the PFI Notice.

Q29 My Competent Person who has just carried out Periodic Façade Inspection (PFI) of
       my building recommended some remedial works. I now intend to sell my building.
       Can I be exempted from carrying out the repairs?

A29 No, there is a duty imposed on building owner to whom the PFI Notice was served under
       the Act to carry out any remedial works recommended by the CP.

Q30 My building just underwent Addition &Alteration (A&A) works, can I apply for a
       waiver or deferment to carry out PFI?

A30 You may write to BCA to request for the waiver. You will need to submit the details of the
       A&A works accompanied with drawings and description of the works carried out. The A&A
       works carried out must be related to building façades.

Q31 Can I conduct PSI and PFI concurrently?

A31 If you receive the PSI and PFI notices concurrently, you can appoint the same PE (C&S)
       who is eligible to carry out both inspections and comply with the requirements under PFI
       and PSI regulations. Please note that PFI and PSI are different in scope of inspection and
       therefore requires the submission of two separate reports. It is also worth noting that the
       inspection reports will only be accepted by BCA when the PSI and PFI Notices are served
       concurrently.

(E) USE OF TECHNOLOGY FOR INSPECTION

Q32 Can inspectors carry out façade inspection with the aid of technology?
A32 The inspectors, i.e. Competent Persons (CPs) and Façade Inspectors (FIs) can adopt

        technologies such as drones and infrared thermography to aid their visual inspection of
        building façades. For deployment of drone technology for façade inspection, building
        owners may wish to refer to the link for more information on DSPs that provide this
        service. Engaging DSPs is a private contractual matter between the building owner and
        the DSPs. Owners should seek the advice of the Competent Person in ensuring the

        quality and adequacy of such technological inspection methodologies. For more
        information on regulatory requirements on drone applications, please refer to
        https://www.caas.gov.sg/public-passengers/unmanned-aircraft.

        Other Technologies such as robotic automated tapping device, infrared and ultrasound
        scanners can be adopted for close-range inspections.

        However, prior approval from the Commissioner of Building Control (CBC) is required
        to use such technology to perform façade inspections.

Q33 Can infrared thermography be used for close-range inspection since from infrared
        we can detect the underlying defects?

A33 Infrared thermography is to supplement the close-range inspection and to identify the
        underlying defect. Therefore, Competent Persons (CPs) are still required to carry out
        the 10% close-range inspection.