Guidelines on Periodic
  Facade Inspection

                              Version 1.2
                                Jul 2022

                            Issued By:

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. BACKGROUND
2. APPLICATION OF PERIODIC FAÇADE INSPECTION REGIME
3. QUALIFICATIONS OF COMPETENT PERSON AND FAÇADE INSPECTOR
4. GENERAL DUTIES OF COMPETENT PERSON AND FAÇADE INSPECTOR

     4.1. Competent Person
     4.2. Façade Inspector
5. SCOPE OF FACADE INSPECTION
6. INSPECTION PROCEDURES
     6.1. Preparation and Review of Drawings/Documents
     6.2. Inspection Planning for Access and Equipment
     6.3. Full Visual Inspection
     6.4. Close-range Inspection
7. FULL FAÇADE INVESTIGATION
8. RECORDS OF FAÇADE INSPECTIONS
9. COMMON DEFECTS ON BUILDING FAÇADE
     9.1. General
     9.2. Common Façade Defects
10. ASSESSMENT AND CLASSIFICATION OF RESULTS
11. FORMAT OF REPORT SUBMISSION
12. REPAIR WORKS TO BUILDING FAÇADE DEFECTS

                                                                                                                          1

ANNEXES
     Annex A: Examples of Building Apex
     Annex B: Examples of 10% Close-Range Inspection Requirement
     Annex C: Inspection Checklist of Façade Record for Elevation
     Annex D: Standard Certification by Competent Person for Periodic Façade Inspection
     of Buildings
     Annex E: Checklist for Periodic Façade Inspection (PFI) Report of Existing Building

                                                                                                                          2

1.  BACKGROUND

1.1. The Periodic Façade Inspection (PFI) regime was introduced in 2020 to enhance the
           safety of building facades by facilitating early detection of façade deterioration and
           allowing defects to be rectified in a timely manner so as to reduce the likelihood of
           façade failure as our building stock ages.

1.2. The guidelines serve as a reference for Competent Persons and Façade Inspectors
           when carrying out façade inspections in Singapore.

2.  APPLICATION OF PERIODIC FAÇADE INSPECTION REGIME

2.1. The Periodic Façade Inspection regime applies to all buildings except:
           a) Detached houses, semi-detached houses, terraced or linked houses which are
                 used solely as places of residence,
           b) Temporary buildings, and
           c) Buildings where the highest point (whether or not a roof) is 13 metres or lower
                 when measured from the ground1.

2.2. Periodic façade inspections are to be carried out for a building that is more than 20
           years of age2 . The subsequent inspection shall be conducted at any time during the
           7th or later year after the year during which the last notice requiring a façade
           inspection was given in respect of the building.

3.  QUALIFICATIONS OF COMPETENT PERSON AND FAÇADE INSPECTOR

3.1. The amendments to the Building Control Act that were passed by the Parliament in
           March 2020 require façade inspections to be conducted by a Competent Person. The

1 The building height shall be measured from the ground level to the highest point of a building and does not include
  installations (e.g. equipment such as antenna) on the roof of the building. See also Annex A for other examples
  of building apex.

2 The age of a building in respect of which a Temporary Occupation Permit (TOP) or Certificate of Statutory
  Completion (CSC) is granted in respect of the whole building is determined from the date the last TOP is granted
  in respect of the whole building or, where no such TOP is so granted, the date the last CSC was issued for the
  whole building.

                                                                                                                          3

           Competent Person may appoint Façade Inspector(s) to assist him to carry out the
           façade inspections.

3.2. The Competent Person may be either a registered Professional Engineer in the civil
           or structural engineering discipline with the Professional Engineers Board, or a
           Registered Architect with the Board of Architects.

3.3. The Façade Inspector may be a registered Resident Engineer or registered Resident
           Technical Officer who is accredited with the Joint Accreditation Committee
           established by the Institution of Engineers of Singapore (IES), the Association of
           Consulting Engineers Singapore (ACES) and BCA for the accreditation of Façade
           Inspectors, or any other person who possesses the relevant qualifications and
           experience recognised by BCA.

3.4. All Competent Persons and Façade Inspectors are required to attend and pass a
           course titled the “Certificate in Façade Inspection” prior to carrying out any façade
           inspection.

4.      GENERAL DUTIES OF COMPETENT PERSON AND FAÇADE

        INSPECTOR

4.1. Competent Person

4.1.1.  The Competent Person who is appointed by the building owner shall carry out a
        comprehensive visual inspection and close-range inspection that enable him to
        exercise his/her professional assessment and judgement on the condition of the
        façade being inspected. The Competent Person shall carry out the duties as
        prescribed in the Building Control Act and Regulations.

                       4

4.1.2.  The Competent Person may appoint a Façade Inspector to assist him in the façade
        inspection under his/her direction and supervision. However, the Competent Person
        shall remain ultimately responsible for the inspection and assessment of the
        inspection findings and overall condition of the building facade.

4.1.3.  The Competent Person must take all necessary steps as prescribed in the Building
        Control Act and Regulations when carrying out of a façade inspection. He/she shall
        also plan for the entire inspection exercise to be carried out in a safe manner, and be
        present at the façade inspection to ensure that the inspection is carried out in
        accordance with the Building Control Act and Regulations.

4.1.4.  As a matter of good practice, the Competent Person should, upon becoming aware
        of any unsafe conditions in respect of a building façade, immediately report the
        unsafe conditions to the Commissioner of Building Control and building owner.

4.2. Façade Inspector

4.2.1.  The Façade Inspector should familiarise himself with the available information and
        documents relevant to the building façade prior to the commencement of the façade
        inspection and assist the Competent Person to carry out the façade inspection in
        accordance with the Building Control Act and Regulations.

4.2.2.  In the course of carrying out his duties, the façade inspector is required to record
        defects found during inspection and promptly inform the Competent Person and
        building owner if he/she observes facades that are dangerous or likely to pose
        immediate danger.

4.2.3. The façade inspector should ensure that defects recorded are done so accurately
           and with due diligence.

                       5

5  SCOPE OF FAÇADE INSPECTION

5.1 The scope of façade inspection covers the exterior of the building, any exterior feature
           attached to the building, and parts of a building that is located on or near the exterior
           of a building:
           (a) any window, with or without movable parts, such as a roof skylight, glass
                   panel, glass brick, louvre, glazed sash, glazed door, translucent sheeting and
                   any other building material which transmits natural light directly from outside a
                   building into an interior of the building;
           (b) any grille or shutter, with or without movable parts;
           (c) any tile, cladding, curtain wall, siding, plaster, bracket or cornice;
           (d) any gutter, rainwater down-pipe or part of the roof;
           (e) any membrane shade structure, or any awning or device to provide shade;
           (f) any green wall which is partially or completely covered by vegetation,
                   including any brackets that support it, the growing medium for the vegetation
                   (other than soil) and any integrated water delivery system;
           (g) any screen or screen wall;
           (h) any louvres or fins;
           (i) any masonry veneer;
           (j) any window hood;
           (k) any cantilevered roof;
           (l) any part of a concrete wall, concrete slab, concrete beam or concrete column;
           (m) any external balustrade;
           (n) any directional sign, signboard, skysign, animated billboard or other
                   advertising structure installed, and includes any frame, panel, hoarding or
                   other supporting structure of or for the directional sign, signboard, skysign,
                   animated billboard or other advertising structure;
           (o) any clothes drying rack;
           (p) any suspended ceiling system —
                   (i) fitted under or hung from a porch, porte-cochere, portico, covered
                   concourse or walkway, or similar shelter —
                        (A) that is located at the entrance or side of building or projects from or
                        near an external edge of a building; and
                        (B) that spans across a space below which is accessible to members of
                        the public; and
                   (ii) the underside of which is exposed to rain;

                               6

           (q) any of the following that is used or may be used to attach to, or that supports
           or may support for use with, the building any externally mounted equipment:

                   (i) a metal or concrete bracket, or similar structural supporting system
                   attached to the building and to the externally mounted equipment (if any);
                   (ii) a cable and other associated components of a structural supporting
                   system mentioned in sub-paragraph (i), where the cable or components are
                   attached to the building and to the externally mounted equipment (if any).
5.2 In paragraph 5.1 (q), externally mounted equipment includes the following:
                (a) an air-conditioning unit and its condensing equipment;
                (b) a ventilation system;
                (c) a photovoltaic array or panel;
                (d) a solar water heater;
                (e) an apparatus (including a dish antenna) or a combination of apparatus for

                     the transmission or direct reception of broadcast matter or wireless
                     communication.

                                                                                                                          7

6      INSPECTION PROCEDURES

6.1 Preparation and Review of Drawings/Documents

6.1.1  Prior to the commencement of the inspection, the Competent Person should obtain
       and review all relevant approved plans, shop drawings, previous inspection reports,
       repair works histories and details to have an understanding of the façade design and
       construction of the building including subsequent additions, alterations and repairs. It
       is also useful to find out from the building owner/ facility manager about any problems
       observed or reported in the building façade or its components in the past. This will
       enable the Competent Person to have a good understanding of the existing façade
       types and detailing.

6.1.2  If there is no information or document available on the building façade, the Competent
       Person shall carry out the review based on the appropriate Standards and Codes of
       Practices (which are applicable to Singapore) at the time of installation of the building
       façade with reference to the date of issue of the Temporary Occupation Permit,
       Certificate of Statutory Completion or other relevant documents.

6.2 Inspection Planning for Access and Equipment

6.2.1  The Competent Person must perform façade inspections in accordance with the
       Building Control Act and Regulations. When formulating the façade inspection
       methodology, the Competent Person should conduct an assessment of the risks
       involved in carrying out the façade inspection. The risk assessment should not be
       limited to the risks potentially faced by the Competent Person, Façade Inspector and
       the inspection team, and should also consider risks posed to the general public and
       building occupants during the façade inspection. The safe ingress and egress of the
       building occupants shall be ensured at all times when a façade inspection is in
       progress .The Competent Person must take measures to manage all identified risks
       such as adopting good safety practices, proper use of safety equipment, cordoning-
       off of at-risk areas and etc.

6.2.2  After reviewing all available information, the Competent Person should formulate
       appropriate methods for carrying out the façade inspection, including the types of
       access platform (e.g. gondola, boom lift etc.) to be used for close-up inspection of the

                                                  8

       façade elements by the Competent Person and Façade Inspector. The Competent
       Person should consider the existing maintenance access platform available and the
       suitability of the access platform having considered the surrounding conditions of the
       building.

6.2.3  In situations where the use of a gondola is not feasible, the Competent Person may
       consider to use other access modes or equipment for carrying out the inspection such
       as mast climber, scissor lift, boom lift, building maintenance unit system, motorised
       elevated work platform or other observation platform as he/she deems appropriate.
       Notwithstanding the selected mode of access, the Competent Person is reminded to
       ensure that all requirements pertaining to working-at-height as imposed by the
       Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and relevant agencies must be met, and all operators
       shall have attained the relevant certification in the operation of the relevant
       machineries. The Competent Person must also ensure that all access platforms
       required to be erected for facilitating the inspections comply with standards set by the
       MOM.

6.2.4  The Competent Person must plan for the façade inspection to be done with minimal
       inconvenience to the building occupants and the general public, and work with the
       building owner to notify the building occupants of the façade inspection in advance.

6.3 Full Visual Inspection

6.3.1  The full visual inspection is a visual survey carried out to observe and assess the
       condition of the entire building façade at an appropriate distance from ground level
       or other suitable vantage points.

6.3.2  The Competent Person and Façade Inspector under the direct supervision of the
       Competent Person shall, from ground level or other suitable vantage locations,
       methodically observe and assess the condition of the entire facade areas horizontally
       and vertically. Amongst others, the Competent Person and Façade Inspector should
       look out for dilapidation and displacement of façade elements.

6.3.3  Equipment such as photographic cameras and binoculars should be used to assist in
       the façade inspection, and to record the façade condition. Good resolution photos
       showing all elevations views, far views, and close-up views of the building facades

                            9

       inspected, including the façade defects observed during this stage, shall be taken
       during the visual inspection.

6.3.4  Where the Competent Person intends to adopt technologies (e.g. infra-red scanning
       thermography, unmanned aerial vehicles/ drones, etc.) to facilitate the performance
       of façade inspection, approval from Commissioner of Building Control is required.
       The Competent Person shall engage a suitably qualified party to operate the
       equipment and provide interpretation and assessment of the results obtained. The
       Technical Reference TR 78: 2020 – Building facade inspection using Unmanned
       Aircraft Systems (UAS) shall be referred to when unmanned aerial vehicle or drone
       is used for the façade inspection.

6.4 Close-range Inspection

6.4.1 What is “close-range” inspection?

6.4.1.1 A close-range inspection is a close-up visual façade inspection with tactile
           assessment (i.e. physical contact with the façade) of the building façade, carried out
           using probing tools (e.g. tapping rod, rubber mallet), non-destructive testing or
           technology (i.e. borescope, scanning equipment which does not require special
           training to operate or use), or a combination of the aforesaid probing tools and non-
           destructive testing or technology. Where the Competent Person intends to adopt
           technologies (e.g. robotic automated tapping device, automated scanning equipment,
           Infrared and ultrasound scanners, etc.) to facilitate the performance of façade
           inspection, approval from Commissioner of Building Control is required. The
           Competent Person must perform close-range façade inspection on suitable parts of
           each elevation of the building, being at least 10% of the surface area of each elevation
           (i.e. each face of the building). The purpose of a close-range inspection is to conduct
           a detailed inspection of the façade elements to observe and evaluate conditions of
           the façade that might be concealed or cannot be observed during the full visual
           inspection. Close-range inspection requires physical contact with the façade to
           detect both surface and underlying defects, such as delamination, de-bonding, or
           hollowness in plaster/ tile and displacement or dislodgement of panels, failure of
           anchorages/ fasteners/ supports/ brackets, as well as looseness or cracking of the
           elements on the building façade.

                                         10

6.4.2 How to calculate the 10% surface area of each façade elevation?

6.4.2.1 In general, the entire façade area for each building elevation is calculated by
           multiplying the height of the building elevation by the length of the building elevation.
           The “close-range” inspection must be performed on a surface area of at least 10% of
           the surface area of each building façade elevation. See Annex B for examples of the
           computation of the 10% façade elevation area.

6.4.2.2 On buildings with recesses within the façade elevations, the recessed areas shall
           count towards the total surface area of a façade elevation for close-range inspection
           for that façade elevation. The Competent Person is to assess and decide if the
           “close-range” inspection should be performed for the recessed area.

6.4.2.3 The close-range inspection shall also apply to the external façade elements at the
           underside of sky-bridges and overhanging floors of cantilevered buildings (e.g. The
           Interlace, Marina Bay Sands).