BCA Construction Quality Assessment System
                                             CONQUAS® 2022

25 May 2023

             CONQUAS® 2022

                                                                                                                       2

                         CONQUAS®

                                THE BCA
       CONSTRUCTION QUALITY ASSESSMENT SYSTEM

Copyright @ 2022 by the Building and Construction Authority, Singapore. All rights
reserved. No part may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without
permission in writing from the publisher.
While every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information presented
in this publication, neither the Authority nor its employees or agents can accept
responsibility for any loss or damage incurred in connection with the use of the
contents.

25 May 2023

             CONQUAS® 2022

                                                                                       3

             CONTENTS

1.0 INTRODUCTION....................................................................................................4
         1.1 Objectives of CONQUAS
         1.2 Scope of CONQUAS
         1.3 Derivation of CONQUAS
         1.4 CONQUAS Assessor

2.0 CONQUAS.............................................................................................................11
         2.1 Components to be assessed
         2.2 The Weightages
         2.3 Sampling

3.0 THE ASSESSMENT.................................................................................................14
         3.1 Assessment Approach
         3.2 Assessment
         3.3 Bonus Points
         3.4 Major Defects
         3.5 Moderation Framework
         3.6 Computation of CONQUAS Score
         3.7 Publication of CONQUAS Scores and/or CONQUAS Bands

APPENDICES

Appendix 1   Quality Standards for Internal Finishes Works........................................... 36
Appendix 2   Quality Standards for External Finishes Works.......................................... 47
Appendix 3   Quality Standards for Materials and Functional Tests............................... 55
Appendix 4   Defects Grouping Guide for Assessment of Internal Finishes.................... 57
Appendix 5   Building Grouping Guide………………………………………………………………………… 58

Revision Log ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 59

25 May 2023

             CONQUAS® 2022

                                                                                                                       4

1.0 INTRODUCTION

         Construction Quality Assessment System (CONQUAS) 2022 is now the eleventh
         edition of the CONQUAS assessment scheme after more than 30 years of
         implementation.

         The key changes are as follows:

             a. Internal Finishes (For Private Residential Projects only)
                     i. Based on the distribution of defects from complaints raised during
                           Defects Liability Period (DLP), the weightages for internal finishes were
                           adjusted to ensure it commensurate with end users’ expectation on
                           quality

             b. Installation Methods Verification and Functional Tests (For Private
                  Residential Projects only)
                     i. Introduced Water Flow Test for dwelling unit corridor, footpath,
                           exposed walkway in carpark, lift lobbies and basement carpark to
                           address issues of ponding at common areas
                    ii. Introduced 100% EN 14179-2 heat soak test for tempered glass
                           (including laminated tempered glass) used at balcony, roof canopy and
                           shower screen (Self-Testing) + 3-year warranty for all glasses to address
                           issues of shattered glasses within dwelling units and common areas
                   iii. Implement self-testing for Pull-Off-Test for Internal Wall Tiles (based
                           on project’s QP declaration) in place of actual tests to streamline
                           assessment process

             c. External Work Assessment (For Private Residential Projects only)
                     i. Added assessment of suspended Swimming Pool for signs of water
                           leakages

             d. Moderation Framework
                     i. Expanded moderation scope to cover validated major latent defects
                           and contravention of regulatory requirement/s

             e. Bonus Points
                     i. Removed from CONQUAS Assessment Framework

1.1 Objectives of CONQUAS

         The Building and Construction Authority (BCA) developed the CONQUAS in
         conjunction with major public sector agencies and various leading industry
         professional bodies, organizations and firms to measure the quality level achieved in
         a completed building project.

         CONQUAS was designed with three objectives:

         (a) To have a standard quality assessment system for new building projects.
         (b) To make quality assessment objective by:

                  - measuring constructed works against workmanship standards
                      and specification.

25 May 2023

             CONQUAS® 2022

                                                                                                                       5

                  - using a sampling approach to suitably represent the whole
                      project.

         (c) To enable quality assessment to be carried out systematically within
                  reasonable cost and time.

         CONQUAS is an independent assessment. Unless specified in the building contract,
         project engineers or architects should not use CONQUAS to decide if the building or
         parts of the building project are acceptable.

1.2 Scope of CONQUAS

         CONQUAS sets out the standards for the various aspects of construction work and
         award points for works that meet the standards. These points are then summed up
         to give the CONQUAS Score and/or CONQUAS Banda for the building project.

         CONQUAS covers most aspects of general building architectural works and
         assessments shall be completed prior to application for TOP or CSC inspection,
         whichever comes first.

a It reflects a project’s (private residential) CONQUAS performance (which is determined by BCA's
CONQUAS assessment and consideration of validated feedback from homeowners), or a firm’s CONQUAS
track records based on its CONQUAS project performance/s over the past 6 years. The performance is
represented on a banding scale, with Band 1 being the best (very low incidence of major defects) and Band 6
being unsatisfactory (higher incidence of major defects). Based on past records, projects with Band 1 had very
low incidence of major defects.

25 May 2023

             CONQUAS® 2022

                                                                                          6

The assessment consists of four components:
         (1) Internal Finishes,
         (2) Installation Methods Verification and Functional Tests,
         (3) External Finishes, and
         (4) Bonus Points – discontinued for projects with construction tenders
                  called from 1 July 2023

Each component is further divided into different items for assessment. However, the
assessment excludes works such as piling, heavy foundation and sub-structure works
which are heavily equipment-based, buried or covered and usually called under
separate contracts or sub-contracts. Design, choice of materials and end users’
aesthetic preferences are also excluded from the assessment.

The building is assessed primarily on workmanship standards achieved through
factory and site inspection. For projects using Design for Manufacturing and Assembly
(DfMA) technologies, assessments will be done throughout the construction process
with the Installation Methods Verification and some of the Functional Tests carried
out in the factory.

The assessment on the functional performance of selected services and installations
help to safeguard the interest of building occupants in relation to liveability, comfort
and defects which surface only after some time.

To ensure the robustness of the CONQUAS score, major defects will be taken into
consideration depending on when such major defects are detected, or adverse
feedback on such major defects are received as follows:

(a) Where major defects are detected during the assessment, such major defects
        will affect the scoring during the assessment;

(b) Where adverse feedback on major defects are received from end-users during
        the period from the completion of the assessment to the issuance of the
        CONQUAS score and/or CONQUAS band, the CONQUAS score and/or
        CONQUAS band will be moderated before being issued;

(c) Where valid adverse feedback on major defects are received from end-users
        after the date of issuance of the CONQUAS score and/or CONQUAS band, the
        CONQUAS score and/or CONQUAS band will be further moderated.

In addition, the 3-tier CONQUAS Scheme (see Table A) was introduced to help
developers/contractors further raise the quality of their new private residential
developments. This involves a higher sampling rate assessment where more samples
will be covered and more areas for improvement identified. The 3-tier CONQUAS
Scheme will apply to all CONQUAS applications for new *private residential
developments.

The 3-tier CONQUAS Scheme is applicable where:
(a) developers or main contractors, in the past 3 years,

        i. with no CONQUAS track record for *private residential development, or
       ii. has at least one *private residential development graded Band 4 or 5 or
       iii. has at least one *private residential development in Band 6 or with major

              defects4 affecting ≥ 20 units or 5% of all units, whichever is lower or at

25 May 2023

             CONQUAS® 2022

                                                                                                              7

              common areas in > 3 or > 5 common area locations for projects with < 500
              units and > 500 units respectively or
       iv. has from the time after the application is made to any time before 20% of
              the required internal finishes of the project have been completed at least
              one *private residential development in Band 6 or with major defects4
              affecting > 20 units or 5% of all units, whichever is lower or at common
              areas in > 3 or > 5 common area locations for projects with < 500 units
              and > 500 units respectively

(Upon the expiry of the 3-year period, BCA retains the discretion to impose Tier 3
CONQUAS assessment if BCA assesses that the major defects have not been
reasonably addressed.)

(b) all other developers or main contractors
         i. to be decided after the initial CONQUAS band 3 is generated

*Note: Includes private mixed developments with residential component.

25 May 2023

             CONQUAS® 2022

                                                                                                       8

                 Table A – 3-Tier CONQUAS Scheme

S/N  Applicants                       Tier 1                     Tier 2a        Tier 2b        Tier 3

                                      25%                        50%            100%           100%

                                      sampling                   sampling1      sampling (all  checks2
                                                                 (50% of the    units will be
                                      (25% of the                units will be  checked, and   (all
                                                                 checked, and   sampling will  locations
                                      units will be              sampling will  be             within all
                                                                 be             conducted      units will
                                      checked,                   conducted      within units)  be
                                                                                               checked)
                                      and

                                      sampling

                                      will                   be

                                      conducted within units)

                                      within

                                      units)

a)   Developers or main contractors   -                          During         When the -

     i. with no CONQUAS track record                             CONQUAS initial

     for *private residential                                    application    CONQUAS
     development in the past 3                                                  band3 is in

     years, or                                                                  Band 4 or 5

     ii. has at least one *private -                                                           -

     residential development in the

     past 3 years in Band 4 or 5, or

                   iii. has at least one *private -              -              -              During
                           residential development in the
                           past 3 years in Band 6 or with                                      CONQUAS
                           major defects4 affecting ≥ 20
                           units or 5% of all units,                                           application
                           whichever is lower or at
                           common areas in ≥ 3 or ≥ 5            During         During         -
                           common area locations for
                           projects with < 500 units and ≥       CONQUAS CONQUAS
                           500 units respectively
                                                                 assessments5 assessments5
                 Upon the expiry of the 3-year period,
                 BCA retains the discretion to impose
                 Tier 3 CONQUAS assessment if BCA
                 assesses that the major defects4 have
                 not been reasonably addressed.

                   iv. has from the time after the -
                           application is made to any time
                           before 20% of the required
                           internal finishes of the project
                           have been completed at least
                           one *private residential
                           development in Band 6 or with
                           major defects4 affecting ≥ 20
                           units or 5% of all units,
                           whichever is lower or at

25 May 2023

                                                                                               CONQUAS® 2022

                                                                                                 9

             common areas in > 3 or > 5
             common area locations for
             projects with < 500 units and >
             500 units respectively

b)           All other developers or main During  When the When the -

             contractors                         CONQUAS initial            CONQUAS

             i. to be decided after the initial  application CONQUAS score, after

             CONQUAS band 3 is generated          band 3 is in 50% of the

                                                  Band 4 or 5 required

                                                                            architectural

                                                                            internal

                                                                            finishes

                                                                            samples are

                                                                            completed,

                                                                            fall in Band 4

                                                                            or 5

    *Note: Includes private mixed developments with residential component.

1Additional samples will be taken on: architectural internal finishes samples, wet areas water tightness tests for
toilets/bathrooms, window water tightness tests.
2 100% checks refer to all locations within all dwelling units in a project will be checked. Projects will be required to
 meet prevailing CONQUAS Band 2.
3 The initial CONQUAS band will be derived after 20% (for tier 2a) and 50% (for tier 2b) of the required architectural
 internal finishes samples are completed.
4 Major defects refer to defects that would generally not be acceptable to end-users as specified under section 3.4 in
 this manual.
5 Projects will be escalated one tier up from the prevailing tier imposed.

1.3 Derivation of CONQUAS

         The minimum standards were derived from discussions with the major public sector
         agencies, developers, consultants and contractors based on the general
         specifications used in their projects.

         To match the expectations from the end users, feedback through complaints,
         homeowners’ survey findings and defects listings were also considered in refining the
         weightages and assessment standards.

         In developing CONQUAS, studies and numerous trials were conducted to fine-tune its
         new test techniques and assessment standards. Moderation of the scoring/banding
         system was carried out along with trials to ensure accuracy, consistency and alignment
         with end users’ expectations.

25 May 2023

                                                                                            CONQUAS® 2022

                                                                                                                       10

1.4 CONQUAS Assessor

         BCA CONQUAS assessors undergo a rigorous training programme. They are required
         to attend BCA's in-house CONQUAS training and calibration programme to ensure
         competency and consistency in the assessment.

25 May 2023

             CONQUAS® 2022

We transform the Built Environment Sector and shape a liveable and smart Built Environment for Singapore  11

2.0 CONQUAS

2.1 Components to be assessed

The CONQUAS assessment is divided into four main components –

         (a) Internal Finishes,
         (b) Installation Methods Verification and Functional Tests,
         (c) External Finishes, and
         (d) Bonus Points – discontinued for projects with construction tenders

                  called from 1 July 2023.

(a) Internal Finishes

         Internal finishes deal mainly with the finishes and components. This is the part
         where the quality and standard of workmanship are most visible. The
         assessment covers:

         (i) architectural finishes, which includes floors, internal walls, ceiling,
                  doors, windows and components. Components include permanent
                  internal fixtures (such as wardrobe, kitchen cabinet, vanity top, mirror,
                  bathtub, water closet, shower screen, basin etc.), and permanent
                  external fixtures (such signage, railings, unit number plates, lift fittings,
                  letter box, lightings, metal gate, etc.).

         (ii) basic M&E fittings, which includes taps and mixers, WC, floor traps,
                  electrical switches, trunkings, fan coil unit, air-con diffuser, light fittings,
                  CCTV camera, shower head, etc.