BCA Construction Quality Assessment System

                               CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

20 April 2026

               CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                                                       2

                           CONQUAS®

                                                        THE BCA
                                CONSTRUCTION QUALITY ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
Copyright @ 2025 by the Building and Construction Authority, Singapore. All rights reserved. No part
may be reproduced, in any form or by any means, without permission in writing from the publisher.
While every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information presented in this
publication, neither the Authority nor its employees or agents can accept responsibility for any loss or
damage incurred in connection with the use of the contents.

20 April 2026

               CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                                                        3

               CONTENTS

1.0 INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................... 4
         1.1 Objectives of CONQUAS
         1.2 Scope of CONQUAS (Private residential)
         1.3 Development of CONQUAS (Private Residential)

2.0 CONQUAS (Private Residential)............................................................................ 6
         2.1 Components to be assessed
         2.2 The Weightages
         2.3 Sampling

3.0 THE ASSESSMENT.................................................................................................13
         3.1 Assessment Approach
         3.2 Assessment
         3.3 CONQUAS Project Band
         3.4 Major Defects
         3.5 3 Tier CONQUAS Scheme
         3.6 Moderation Framework
         3.7 Publication of CONQUAS Bands

APPENDICES

Appendix 1     Quality Standards for Internal Finishes Works........................................... 24
Appendix 2     Quality Standards for External Finishes Works........................................... 30
Appendix 3     Quality Standards for Functional Tests...................................................... 39
Revision Log   ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 40

20 April 2026

                         CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                                                       4

1.0 INTRODUCTION

         Construction Quality Assessment System (CONQUAS) Private Residential is now the twelfth
         edition of the CONQUAS assessment scheme after more than 35 years of implementation.

1.1 Objectives of CONQUAS

         The Building and Construction Authority (BCA) developed the CONQUAS in conjunction with
         major public sector agencies and various leading industry professional bodies, organisations
         and firms to measure the quality level achieved in a completed building project.
         CONQUAS was designed with three objectives:
         (a) To have a standard quality assessment system for new building projects.
         (b) To make quality assessment objective by:

                        • measuring constructed works against workmanship standards
                             and specifications; and

                        • using a sampling approach to suitably represent the whole
                             project.

         (c) To enable quality assessment to be carried out systematically within reasonable cost
                   and time.

         CONQUAS is an independent assessment. Unless specified in the building contract, project
         engineers or architects should not use CONQUAS to decide if the building or parts of the
         building project are acceptable. CONQUAS covers most aspects of general building
         architectural works and assessments shall be completed prior to application for Temporary
         Occupation Permit or Certificate of Statutory Completion inspection, whichever comes first.

20 April 2026

               CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                                               5

1.2 Scope of CONQUAS (Private Residential)

         CONQUAS (Private Residential) is specifically for private residential projects and the
         residential component of private mixed development projects. It places greater emphasis on
         major defects that impact functionality and liveability while maintaining balance between
         construction productivity and quality.

         It also aims to provide a greater differentiation (by banding) in CONQUAS performance
         between projects/developers/builders.

         The key enhancements of CONQUAS (Private Residential) from earlier editions are as follows:

              Calibration of Project CONQUAS performance:

        a. New scoring methodology with pre-requisites on critical tests, to provide greater
              differentiation (by banding) between projects’ CONQUAS performances

        b. Higher passing rate of windows water-tightness test to 10% non-compliance (from
              current 15%)

        c. Revised weightages of the assessment components with greater emphasis on functional
              tests that affects liveability

        d. Revised classification of major defects to place greater emphasis on areas with greater
              impact on homeowners in terms of liveability and functionality

              Streamlined CONQUAS assessments:

        e. Streamlined Internal Finishes defects categories by minimising checks on areas that have
              insignificant impact on functionality and liveability e.g. removable stains, floor tonality etc

        f. Removed Installation Method Verification assessments to streamline assessment
              process

1.3 Development of CONQUAS (Private Residential)

         CONQUAS (Private Residential) was co-developed by developers, consultants, builders and
         BCA.

         During development, we refined the weightages and assessment standards by considering
         feedback from multiple sources: feedback and survey findings from homeowners, reported
         defect during the Defect Liability Period (DLP) and BCA’s past CONQUAS assessment data.
         Extensive studies and numerous trials were also conducted to fine-tune the new assessment
         standards.

         CONQUAS (Private Residential) focuses on addressing critical workmanship-related issues that
         impact liveability and functionality, whilst maintaining a balance between construction
         productivity and quality.

20 April 2026

               CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                                               6

2.0 CONQUAS (Private Residential)

2.1 Components to be assessed

The CONQUAS assessment is divided into three main components –

                   (a) Internal Finishes,
                   (b) Functional Tests, and
                   (c) External Finishes

Each component is further divided into different items for assessment. However, the assessment
excludes works such as piling, heavy foundation and sub-structure works which are heavily
equipment-based, buried or covered and usually called under separate contracts or sub-contracts.
Design, choice of materials and end users’ aesthetic preferences are also excluded from the
assessment.

The building is assessed primarily on workmanship standards achieved through factory and site
inspection. For projects using Design for Manufacturing and Assembly (DfMA) technologies,
assessments will be done throughout the construction process with some of the Functional Tests
carried out in the factory.

The assessment on the functional performance of selected services and installations help to safeguard
the interest of homeowners in relation to liveability, comfort and defects which surface only after
some time.

(a) Internal Finishes

         Internal finishes assessment deals mainly with the finishes and components. This is the part
         where the quality and standard of workmanship are most visible. The assessment covers:

         (i) architectural finishes, which include floors, internal walls, ceiling, doors, windows and
                   components. Components include permanent internal fixtures (such as wardrobe,
                   kitchen cabinet, vanity top, mirror, bathtub, water closet, shower screen, basin etc.),
                   and permanent external fixtures (such as signage, railings, unit number plates, lift
                   fittings, letter box, lighting, metal gate, etc.).

         (ii) basic M&E fittings, which include taps and mixers, WC, floor traps, electrical switches,
                   trunkings, fan coil unit, air-con diffuser, light fittings, CCTV camera, shower head, etc.
                   At the lift lobby, lift display and call-button panels are checked as M&E basic fittings.

         The quality standards for Internal Finishes are given in Appendix 1.

(b) Functional Tests

         Functional tests include checks on window, wet area water-tightness and water flow tests at
         common areas as well as QP’s declaration on the results for 100% EN 14179-2 heat soak test
         for tempered glass (including laminated tempered glass) and Pull-Off-Test for Internal Wall
         Tiles. For projects that adopt PPVC, a maximum of 30% of the total window water-tightness
         test samples and 20% of the total wet area water tightness test samples could be carried out
         in the factory.

20 April 2026

               CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                                  7

(c) External Finishes

         External Finishes assessment covers the roofs, external walls and external works at the
         completion stage of the building.

2.2 The Weightages

The weightages allocation for Internal Finishes, Functional Tests, External Finishes are as
follows:

               Components              Weightages

               Internal Finishes (IF)  40%
               Functional Tests (FT)   40%
               External Finishes (EF)  20%

20 April 2026

                                                   CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                                   8

2.3 Sampling

    As it is resource intensive to assess all elements in a building, CONQUAS uses a sampling
    system for the assessment. The sampling system, which is based on the gross floor area of the
    building, will ensure that the assessment adequately represents the entire building.

    The assessment is based on the sampling guidelines table as set out below:

                             Sampling Guidelines Table

    Items                   GFA     Min    Max                                  Remarks
                            per   Sample  Sample
                          Sample

1 Internal Finishes       70 m2   90                For all private residential project &
                                          800 mixed development project with

                                                    residential component

                                                        50% Sampling (50% coverage for all

    Internal Finishes                                   units):
    (Tier 2a)
1a                        -       90      1,440 Max Principal samples: 640

                                                        Max Service samples: 640

                                                        Max Circulation samples: 160

                                                        100% Sampling (100% coverage for all

    Internal Finishes                                   units):
    (Tier 2b)
1b                        -       90      2,160 Max Principal samples: 1000

                                                        Max Service samples: 1000

                                                        Max Circulation samples: 160

2 External Wall           -       100%    -             100% of the blocks or units
3 External Work
4 Roof                    -       1       -             1 for each type of external work

                          -       50%     -             Minimum 50% of the blocks or units

                                                        Conducted by BCA. A sample is
                                                        defined as 2m length of joint.

    Field Window Water-                                 5% of total number of window panels
    tightness Test (WTT)
5                         -       20      100 or 5% of total curtain wall area,

                                                        whichever is applicable

                                                        For PPVC project, maximum 30% of
                                                        the test samples could be from factory

20 April 2026

                                                                                CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                9

                                         50% Sampling

                                         10% of total number of window panels
                                         or 10% of total curtain wall area,
                                         whichever is applicable

Field Window Water-

5a tightness Test (WTT)     -  40   200 For PPVC project, maximum 30% of

(Tier 2a)                                the test samples could be from factory

                                         For all private residential project &
                                         mixed development project with
                                         residential component

                                         100% Sampling

                                         20% of total number of window panels
                                         or 20% of total curtain wall area,
                                         whichever is applicable

Field Window Water-                 200 For PPVC project, maximum 30% of

5b tightness Test (WTT)     -  40        the test samples could be from factory

(Tier 2b & Tier 3)

                                         For all private residential project &
                                         mixed development project with
                                         residential component

       Field Window Water-  -  25%  -    Self-Testing with declaration by
5c tightness Self-Test                   project Qualified Person

       (WTT)

                                         Conducted by BCA:

                                         Residential projects:

                                         • 30% of all bathrooms and/or toilets

       Wet Area Water-                   (by location)
6 tightness Test (WPT)
                                         • all will be tested if less than the

                               60   300  minimum sample (for all projects)

                            -

                                         For PPVC project, maximum 20% of

                                         the test samples could be from factory

20 April 2026

                                                        CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                    10

                                             50% Sampling (50% of all bathrooms
                                             and/or toilets):
                                             Based on number of bathrooms
                                             and/or toilets

                                             For PPVC project, maximum 20% of

        Wet Area Water-                      the test samples could be from factory
6a tightness Test (WPT)
                         -       100   600
        (Tier 2a)
                                             For all private residential project &
        Wet Area Water-
6b tightness Test (WPT)                      mixed development project with
                                             residential component
        (Tier 2b)
                                             All will be tested if less than the
        Wet Area Water-                      minimum sample
6c tightness Self-Test
                                             100% Sampling (100% coverage for all
        (WPT)                                uAnllitws)il:l be tested if less than
                                             Bthaesemdinoinmnuummsbaemr polfebathrooms
                                             and/or toilets

                                             For PPVC project, maximum 20% of
                                             the test samples could be from factory

                         -       120   1000  For all private residential project &

                                             mixed development project with

                                             residential component

                                             All will be tested if less than the
                                             minimum sample

                                 100%        • Self-Testing with declaration by
                                             project Qualified Person
                                             • Including flat roof

7  Pull-Off-Test for     10,000  1      5    • 5 tiles per set (by location)
   Internal Wall tiles                 sets  • Self-Testing with declaration by
                         m2      set
                                                 project Qualified Person

20 April 2026

                                             CONQUAS® (Private Residential)

                                                                                                       11

                                                              For all private residential project &
                                                              mixed development project with
                                                              residential component

   Water Flow Test for                                        Sample distribution between internal
                                                              and external areas at 70%:30%

   dwelling unit corridor,

8  lift lobbies, footpaths,  1,500    10         70           Maximum 10m length for unit
   exposed walkway in         m2                              corridor, footpath, exposed walkway,

   carpark and basement                                       driveway in basement carpark per

   carpark                                                    sample

                                                              Not more than 3 carpark lots per
                                                              sample in basement carpark

   100% EN 14179-2 Heat                                       Each lift lobby = 1 sample

   Soak Test for tempered                                     For all private residential project &
                                                              mixed development project with
                                                              residential component

   glass used at balcony,                                     • Self-Testing with declaration

9 roof canopy and                  -  100%       -                    by project Qualified Person

   shower screen (Self-

   Testing) + 3-year                                          • The 3-year warranty for all
                                                                  glasses to start from date of
   warranty for all glasses                                       DLP commencement

A location for internal finishes assessment is a functional space of a building such as a room, hall,
toilet, kitchen, yard, corridor or lobby.