Copyright @ 2016 Building and Construction Authority, Singapore. All rights reserved. This
document or any part thereof may not be reproduced for any reason whatsoever in any form
or means whatsoever and howsoever without prior written consent and approval of the
Building and Construction Authority.

This publication contains information that has been contributed by the Building and
Construction Authority and members of the Technical Committee (comprising agencies,
professional bodies, associations, developers, builders and suppliers). Whilst every effort
has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information contained in this publication, the
Building and Construction Authority (including its employees) and the members of their
Technical Committee (including their employees shall not be responsible for any mistake or
inaccuracy that may be contained herein and all such liability and responsibility are expressly
disclaimed by these said parties.

The Building and Construction Authority does not endorse any of the products contained in
this publication. It is the responsibility of the readers to select the appropriate products and
ensure the selected products meet their specific requirements.

ISBN: 978-981-09-8354-3

FOREWORD

The Building and Construction Authority’s (BCA) Construction Quality Assessment System
(CONQUAS) has been widely adopted as the de facto national yardstick for measuring the
workmanship quality of building projects. To meet the rising expectations of homeowners,
the Quality Mark (QM) Scheme was launched in 2002 to promote a higher consistency in
workmanship standards for private residential developments. To help projects achieve the
standards in CONQUAS and QM, BCA has developed a series of publications on Good Industry
Practices for different trades.

This “Good Industry Practices – Engineered Wood Flooring” is part of the CONQUAS
Enhancement Series to promote good practices. Engineered Wood Flooring is an emerging
product that addresses a myriad of competing issues like environmental sustainability, use of
productive technologies and need for high construction quality. The smart use of renewable
resources in a factory environment leads to a high quality product that is as good as, if not
better than, flooring comprised of solid timber. Engineered Wood Flooring is environmentally
friendly, reduces labour intensive trades and attains consistent high quality that is cost
effective.

This guide shares some of the good practices adopted by practitioners and contractors
on how good workmanship quality Engineered Wood Flooring can be achieved on site. It
provides simple and practical illustrations on the types of Engineered Wood Flooring, quality
checks during manufacture and proper installation methods. Common issues associated
with Engineered Wood Flooring, their causes and possible solutions to address them are
highlighted.

This guide is not meant to be a definitive publication on or dictate how Engineered Wood
Flooring must be designed and installed. It only serves to illustrate some of the good
practices designers and contractors have adopted while designing and installing Engineered
Wood Flooring. We gratefully acknowledge the contributions of practitioners in the production
of this guide and trust that the industry will find this publication useful. We welcome any
contributions from readers to further improve this and subsequent editions of this guide.

Lam Siew Wah
Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Industry Development
Building and Construction Authority

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

This “Good Industry Practices – Engineered Wood Flooring” was developed with inputs
from Architects, Developers, Builders, Specialist Contractors and members from various
industry associations and organizations.

A Technical Committee was formed to review the contents and good practices identified.
We wish to thank the members of the Technical Committee for their valuable contributions.

Technical Committee:

Chairman   Mr Ding Hock Hui             Building and Construction Authority
                                        Building and Construction Authority
Dy Chairman Mr Tan Boon Kee

Working    Mr Rajendran Ramamoorthy     Building and Construction Authority
Committee  Ms Jayanthi d/o Peariahsamy  Building and Construction Authority
           Mr Gary Chua Chei Seong      Building and Construction Authority
           Mr Willie Koh Woei Liet      Building and Construction Authority
           Mr Philip Wong Yew Heng      Building and Construction Authority
           Mr Anson Wong                Building and Construction Authority
           Mr Lim Zee Keong             Building and Construction Authority

Members    Ms Angie Lim Meng Shwu       Housing and Development Board
           Mr Choy Kah Kin              Singapore Institute of Architects
           Mr Alex Pang Tze Kin         Singapore Contractors Association Limited
           Ms Alice Tse                 CapitaLand Limited
           Mr Lai Kok Heng              City Developments Limited
           Mr Pu Suan Hau               Wing Tai Property Management Pte Ltd
           Ms Suria binte Abdul Rahman  Straits Construction Singapore Pte Ltd
           Mr Selvamani Murugappan      Woh Hup (Private) Ltd
           Mr Raymond Yew               Bona Far East & Pacific Pte Ltd
           Mr Syvester Law              Jason Parquet Holdings Limited
           Ms Jesseline Yap             Mapei Far East Pte Ltd
           Ms Tan Lih Tuan              Sin Kim Heng Marketing Pte Ltd

We would like to thank the following agencies, organizations, firms and persons for their
valuable feedback in the review of this guide:

		

Building and Construction Authority

Er Lam Siew Wah       Deputy CEO

Mr Ang Lian Aik 		    Group Director, Construction Productivity Centre (CPC)

Agencies, Organizations and Firms
Housing and Development Board
Australian Timber Floor Association
CapitaLand Limited
Wing Tai Property Management Pte Ltd
ADDP Architects LLP
Architects 61 Private Limited
Straits Construction Singapore Pte Ltd			
Woh Hup Pte Ltd				
B.K.B. Hevea Products Sdn. Bhd.
Goodrich Global Pte Ltd
Syarikat Malaysia Wood Industries Sdn. Bhd.

We would also like to thank Syarikat Malaysia Wood Industries Sdn. Bhd. for sharing Unilin’s
patented click system in this guide.

Ang Kian Seng
Group Director
Technology Development Division
Building and Construction Authority

CONTENTS

1 INTRODUCTION										1	

2 DESIGN                                                        2

											

2.1 Common Types of Engineered Wood System				                  2

2.2 Subfloor										3

2.3 Timber Planks									5

		

			 2.3.1 Structure of Engineered Wood Plank					               6

			 2.3.2 Engineered Wood Floor Manufacturing Process			        8

			 2.3.3 Manufacturing Process – Full Plank					               9

			 2.3.4 Manufacturing Process – Multi-strip Plank				         9

			 2.3.5 Manufacturing Process – Full & Multi-strip Planks			  10

			2.3.6 Method of Joining Planks							11

			2.3.7 Types of Edge Finishes							13

2.4 Selection of Adhesive								14

2.5 Provision for Movement					                                 15

2.6 Joint Interface with Other Materials						                  15

2.7 Other Considerations                                        16

3 DELIVERY, HANDLING AND STORAGE                                17

											

3.1 Delivery (Factory to Site) for Engineered Wood              17

			3.1.1 Handling								                                       18

		

			 3.1.2 Storage                                               18

3.2 Adhesive                                                    19

			 3.2.1 Delivery                                              19

			 3.2.2 Handling                                              19

			3.2.3 Storage									19

4 PREPARATORY WORKS									2	 0
		

5 INSTALLATION                                                 23

6 PROTECTION                                                   29

											

6.1 Factory & Delivery Protection				                          29

6.2 Site Storage Protection                                    29

       6.3 After Installation Protection							3	 0
		

7 MAINTENANCE                                                  31

											

7.1 Maintenance Cycle                                          31

7.2 Other Maintenance Considerations                           32

8 COMMON DEFECTS AND RECTIFICATION                             36

											

8.1 Pre-installation Rectification                             36

8.2 Good Practices and Common Defects                          36

8.3 Rectification                                              41

			 8.3.1 Repair Kits for Minor Defects                        41

          8.3.2 Re-coating of Pre-finished Floors              41

			 8.3.3 Re-sanding and Re-application of Protective Coating  41

APPENDIX

											

Appendix A : Sample of Inspection and Test Plan                42

Appendix B : Sample of Inspection Form                         47

REFERENCES                                                     48

1. INTRODUCTION

+LJK SURSHUW\ SULFHV KLJK HQGXVHU H[SHFWDWLRQV IRU TXDOLW\ ͤQLVKLQJ DPLGVW D WLJKW

RSWLRQZLWKDVLPSOLͤHGLQVWDOODWLRQSURFHVVDVFRPSDUHGWRFRQYHQWLRQDOWLPEHUIORRULQJ
7KLVJXLGHSURYLGHVVLPSOHDQGSUDFWLFDOWLSVRQKRZJRRGTXDOLW\HQJLQHHUHGZRRGIORRULQJ
FDQ EH LQVWDOOHG RQ VLWH ,W KLJKOLJKWV WKH VDOLHQW TXDOLW\ LVVXHV LQYROYLQJ GHVLJQ LQVWDOODWLRQ
WRKLJKTXDOLW\VWDQGDUGVDQGLPSURYHGSURGXFWLYLW\

  2. DESIGN

     2.1 Common Types of Engineered Wood System
      Engineered wood flooring can be laid directly onto the subfloor or an underlay based on the
      following systems:
      Direct Lay to Subfloor
      For direct laying of engineered wood, the flooring strips are glued to the subfloor using
      compatible adhesive. This is effective for subfloor that meets evenness tolerance. This
      method of laying provides a solid feel for the user.

      With Underlay and Fixed
      The engineered wood flooring strips are glued to an underlay (plywood, rubber or felt)
      which is fixed to the subfloor using suitable adhesive and/or nailing. If plywood is used, it is
      recommended to use Water Boil Proof (WBP) plywood.

      With Underlay and Floating
      The underlay is not fixed to the subfloor and the engineered wood flooring strips are installed
      without fixing to the underlay. This method provides a floating feel.

2

          Design

The underlay can accommodate subfloor unevenness (within 3mm in 2 metres) and provide
a smooth surface to receive the engineered wood. However, this should not be used as the
solution to correct the levelness of the floor screed. Proper supervision and good workmanship
are critical and should be employed to achieve the required levelness of the floor screed.

The underlay helps to cushion the flooring and makes it comfortable to walk on. Some
underlays also act as a moisture barrier protecting the wood from any moisture ingress from
the concrete floor and dampen the sound of steps making it a friendly environment for the
user and also neighbours in the lower floor.

Each engineered wood floor manufacturer provides recommendations for installation of its
product. These should be adhered to.

2.2 Subfloor

The condition of subfloor greatly affects the performance of the engineered wood flooring.
The following are key factors that need to be taken into consideration.

Moisture

          There are various methods, be it non-destructive or
          destructive, to test the moisture in the concrete / floor
          screed.

          One of the methods is to check the Relative Humidity (RH)
          of concrete. This is done by drilling a small hole in the
          subfloor based on tester’s specification 24hrs before the
          testing and sealing it up. A reading within the hole 24hrs
          later will indicate the RH of the concrete. The optimum is to
          have the RH below 80%.

          The common method used in Singapore is measuring the
          moisture content of the subfloor. This is by placing the
          measuring device on the subfloor surface. The surface
          moisture content should be less than 6% or as specified by
          the flooring manufacturer.

          If RH or moisture content exceeds the requirement, moisture
          barrier is to be applied on the subfloor surface.

                                                                                                3

   Evenness                                                                                Design
   Hardness
   Cleanliness  A relatively flat subfloor, with a tolerance of 3mm over
                2m length, allows proper and even adhesion of the
                engineered wood flooring and result in even floor finish.
                Excessive unevenness of the subfloor may lead to air
                pockets between the engineered wood flooring and the
                subfloor and thus cause noise and excessive deflection
                of the floor under foot traffic. Excessive unevenness
                would also result in over-usage or wastage of adhesive.
                If the evenness of the floor screed is not within the
                required tolerance, proper rectification or self-levelling
                compound could be considered to be applied to the
                surface to achieve the required levelness.

                The subfloor surface should not be brittle or chip off or
                crack when tested for hardness. This is to ensure that
                the subfloor has the capacity to receive the nailing of
                underlay or the engineered wood flooring. The rigidity
                and hardness of the subfloor can be tested by tapping
                a hammer on the surface or using the grid-scratching
                method.

                The subfloor surface needs to be clean and free from
                debris, paint and dust before the underlay or wood
                flooring is installed as impurities will affect the bonding.
                The subfloor surface can be grinded and vacuumed to
                prepare it for the next process.

4

                                                                                                                                    Design

2.3 Timber Planks

There are wide selections of timber species in engineered wood flooring. Timber being a
natural product will have natural attributes e.g. knots, grains and various colours and tone.
There can be big contrast of tone and colour even within a single species. In the production
process, manufacturers would sort them in categories and collection. Some collections have
minimum colour variation and a knot free look, while some would have contrasting tone with
prominent knots. The photographs below show some of the collections available.

Clear and well balanced                  Rustic with natural attributes

End users should be informed of the features and characteristic of the floor that they have
selected. While attempts are made to sort to the control sample, it would be difficult to
produce identical and consistent look as timber is a natural product.

Engineered wood flooring can be produced with a single plank lamella or 2-3 strips lamella.
Single plank generally cost more and would have lesser colour variation and tonality within
the board. Functionally, single plank and 2-3 strips plank are similar.

                         Full plank top

                         Multi strip top
                                                                                                   5

   2.3.1 Structure of Engineered Wood Plank                                        Design

                                                                     1
                                                                     2
                                                                     3
                                                                     4

   1. Finishing Layer  • UV-cured solvent free lacquer or oil, wax.

   2. Hardwood Wear Layer • Solid wood layer, most commonly 2-4mm thick.
      (commonly known as 		
      Lamella)

   3. Core Layer       • Usually made of hardwood, spruce or compressed plywood
                         with thickness based on manufacturer’s specification.

                       • Absorbs stress and strain and keeps the floor stable.

   4. Back Layer       • Usually plywood or medium soft wood.

                       • Combines with other layers to prevent the floor from cupping
                         and warping.

6

                                                                                                                                    Design

Engineered wood plank provides increased stability with each layer running at a 90 degree
angle to the layer above. This restricts the widthwise movement of adjacent layers and helps
to reduce warping within each strip.
Some of the popular solid wood species used in flooring and their respective hardness rating
are shown below. This chart is not to be considered as an absolute indication of the hardness
or performance of the flooring according to the type of wood used. For engineered wood
flooring, other factors that affect the performance of the flooring include the type of core
layer, thickness of lamella and finishing layer.

                                                                                                                             7

                                                                                   Design

2.3.2 Engineered Wood Floor Manufacturing Process

DELIVERY                          PURCHASE                                         MULTI STRIP
FULL PLANK  (Selection of required wood species - Critical)

                            KILN DRY PROCESS
                        (Control moisture content)

                              ROUGH MILLING
                        (Plane / mould raw wood)

            CONDITIONING

                           SPLITTING
            (Splitting face layers into lamellas)

                            GRADING
            (Selecting & sorting face lamellas)

                                   COMPOSING MULTI STRIP SURFACE
                                                     PATTERN

                CORE PROCESS
            (Composing core mat)

                                  PRESS PROCESS
            (Pressing the face lamellas on the core & back layer)

                   SANDING PROCESS
            (Sanding and calibrating planks)

               FINISHING PROCESS
            (Different surface finishes)

              PROFILING PROCESS
            (Locking system profiling)

            TESTING & QA / QC CHECKS

                                                     PACKING PROCESS
                                       (Protect and final check before transport)

8

                                                                Design

2.3.3 QA/QC Checks and Good Practices in Manufacturing Process

High quality engineered wood planks can be achieved as the full manufacturing process and
the finishing coats are done in factory. Automated process and well planned quality checks
at necessary stages deliver consistent quality planks.

Process                Good Practices
Splitting of lamellas
                       • Thickness checks on the lamellas after the
                         splitting process help to achieve consistency
                         in size.

Grading of lamellas

                       • The lamellas are sorted according to 		
                         shades and natural attributes.