CONQUAS Enhancement Series

CERAMIC
 TILING

GOOD INDUSTRY PRACTICES

                                                                                                                                                Ceramic Tiling

Copyright @ 2018 Building and Construction Authority, Singapore. All rights reserved. This document or
any part thereof may not be reproduced for any reason whatsoever in any form or means whatsoever and
however without prior written consent and approval of the Building and Construction Authority.
This publication contains information that has been contributed by the Building and Construction Authority
and members of Technical Review Committee (comprising associations, developers, agencies, professionals
and suppliers). Whilst every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information contained in
this publication, the Building and Construction Authority, its employees, the members of their Technical
Review Committee and their employees shall not be responsible for any mistakes or inaccuracies that may
be contained herein and all such liability and responsibility are expressly disclaimed by these said parties.
The Building and Construction Authority does not approve or endorse the products contained in this publication.
It is the responsibility of the readers to select the appropriate products and ensure the selected products meet
their specific requirements.
ISBN: 978-981-11-6305-0

Ceramic Tiling

FOREWORD

The Building and Construction Authority’s (BCA) Construction Quality Assessment System (CONQUAS) has
been widely adopted as the de facto national yardstick for measuring the workmanship quality of building
projects. To meet rising expectations of homeowners, the Quality Mark (QM) Scheme was launched in 2002 to
promote higher consistency in workmanship standards for private residential developments. To help projects
achieve the standards in CONQUAS and QM, BCA has developed a series of publications on Good Industry
Practices for different trades.
The “Good Industry Practices – Ceramic Tiling” guide is part of the CONQUAS Enhancement Series which
shares some of the good practices adopted by practitioners and contractors on how good workmanship quality
for ceramic tiling can be achieved on site. It provides simple and practical illustrations on the types of ceramic
tiles, quality checks during manufacture and proper installation methods. Common issues associated with
ceramic tiling, their causes and possible solutions to address them are also highlighted.
This guide is not meant to be a definitive dictation on how ceramic tiles must be designed and installed. It only
serves to illustrate some of the good practices designers and contractors have adopted while designing and
installing ceramic tiles. We gratefully acknowledge the contributions of practitioners in the production of this
guide and trust that the industry will find this publication useful. We welcome any contributions from readers to
further improve any subsequent editions of this guide.

Neo Choon Keong
Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Industry Development
Building and Construction Authority

                                                                         Ceramic Tiling

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

‘Good Industry Practices – Ceramic Tiling’ was first published in 1999 with a revised edition in 2003. This third
edition of ‘Good Industry Practices – Ceramic Tiling’ was developed with inputs from architects, developers,
builders, specialist contractors and members of various industry associations and organisations.

A Technical Review Committee was formed to review the contents and good practices identified. We wish to
thank the members of the Technical Review Committee for their valuable contributions.

Technical Review Committee for Good Industry Practices – Ceramic Tiling

Chairman:			                   BCA
Mr Tan Boon Kee			

Vice-Chairman:		               BCA
Mr Goh Thiam Lai			

Members:			                    HDB
Mr Sam Leong			                SIA
Mr Jason Lee 			               SCAL
Mr Zachary Chua			             City Developments Limited
Mr Tan Hui			                  Keppel Land
Ms Jane Low			                 Architects 61
Ms Low Siew Woon		             Mapei Far East Pte Ltd
Ms Jesseline Yap			            Laticrete South East Asia Pte Ltd
Ms Wendy Ang			                Stonrich Pte Ltd
Mr Andy Lee			                 OES Construction Pte Ltd
Mr Keith Ong			

Working Committee:             BCA
Ms Jayanthi d/o Peariahsamy		  BCA
Mr Gary Chua			                BCA
Ms Josephine Lee			            BCA
Mr Eugene Goh			               BCA
Mr William Lee			              BCA
Mr Daing Hashim Bin Ahmad		    BCA
Mr John Koh			                 BCA
Mr Shawn Lee			

Ceramic Tiling

We would like to thank the following agencies, organisations and firms for their contributions and valuable
feedback in the review of this guide:

Agencies, Organisations and Firms
Jurong Town Corporation (JTC)
Society of Project Managers (SPM)
ADDP Architects LLP
Straits Construction Singapore Pte Ltd
Woh Hup (Private) Limited
Dragages Singapore Pte Ltd
Koh Brothers Building & Civil Engineering Contractor (Pte) Ltd
China Construction (South Pacific) Development Co. Pte Ltd
Ho Lee Construction Pte Ltd
Daiya Engineering & Construction Pte Ltd
Unison Construction Pte Ltd

Ang Lian Aik
Group Director
Construction Productivity and Quality Group
Building and Construction Authority

CONTENT PAGE                                            Ceramic Tiling

CONTENTS                                                   1

1.0 INTRODUCTION                                           1
                                                           1
2.0 DESIGN                                                 6
                                                           8
										                                                 10
                                                           11
2.1           Tile Selection                               12
                                                           12
2.2           Adhesive Bedding
                                                           13
2.3           Specification of Grouts                      13
                                                           14
2.4           Movement Joints
                                                           15
2.5           Planning of Tile Layouts                     15
                                                           16
2.6           Wet Areas                                    18

2.7           Waterproofing                                19
                                                           19
3.0 DELIVERY, HANDLING AND STORAGE                         20
                                                           23
										                                                 24
                                                           24
3.1           Ceramic Tiles
                                                           28
3.2           Bedding, Adhesive and Grouting Materials
                                                           29
4.0 PREPARATORY WORKS                                      29
                                                           32
										

4.1           Surface Preparation

4.2           Laying of Floor Screed/Render

4.3           Setting out Tiling

5.0 INSTALLATION

										

5.1           Adhesive Bedding - Material Preparation

5.2           Laying of Tiles

5.3           Grouting

5.4           Movement Joint Installation

5.5           Inspection of Completed Works

6.0 PROTECTION

7.0 COMMON FEEDBACK & MAINTENANCE

											

7.1           Common Feedback

7.2           Maintenance

APPENDIX A & B
REFERENCE

CCerearmamicicTTiliinligng  INTRODUCTION / DESIGN

1.0 INTRODUCTION

A ceramic tiling finish is a system comprising no less than substrate, adhesive, stone, grout and movement
joints. All components are equally important and intimately related to one another. Adequate compatibility must
exist among the components as they could only function collectively. The system could only be as strong as the
weakest component, if not worse.

Therefore, design, preparation works, installation, protection and maintenance must take into consideration the
performance characteristics of each individual component as well as the in-situ environmental conditions that
prevail during the installation process. These considerations are similar for new technologies and materials in
Design for Manufacturing and Assembly (DfMA) such as Prefabricated Prefinished Volumetric Construction
(PPVC) and Prefabricated Bathroom Unit (PBU). It is recommended to refer to the respective guides for ceramic
tiling installation in these technologies.

Due to the volume constraint, this guide will focus on the interior installation of ceramic tiling.

2.0 DESIGN

To achieve good tiling works, it is critical to take into account the material selection besides proper installation
and quality control. It is important to understand the characteristics of the selected materials as well as their
compatibility with one another to achieve optimal performance.

The following design details should be considered:

      • Tiles selection
      • Adhesives
      • Grout joints
      • Movement joints
      • Waterproofing

2.1. TILE SELECTION

Ceramic tile is a mixture of clay, quartz ferrous sand materials and water. The clays are mined from earth,
shaped and then coloured. The clays are then dried and subsequently fired at very high temperature in kilns.
Ceramic tile comes in two forms: glazed and unglazed. The primary portion of the tile, known as bisque,
can be naturally coloured with highly designed surfaces which can be glazed either in a high gloss or matte
finish. Glaze is a liquid glass that is baked onto the bisque. Most ceramic tiles have either a white or red body
colouration underneath the glazed finish.

Figure 2.1a illustrates the manufacturing process of ceramic tile extracted from “Design and Material Selection
for Quality – Vol 2”.

                                                                                                                      1

DESIGN                                                                                                Ceramic Tiling

                                                              Manufacturing process of ceramic tiles
                                                                       Figure 2.1.a

2

Ceramic Tiling                                                                               DESIGN

Fine cracks could appear on the glazed surface when the bisque and glaze expand and contract at different
rates. When the cracks show on the surfaces of glazed tiles, it is called crazing. This is a phenomenon caused
by tensile stress between the glaze and bisque. In the kiln, if the tiles are fired up to high temperature too quickly
or cooled too quickly, it can also result in crazing as a result of thermal shock.

Table 1 (under 2.1.5 - Selection Criteria) of SS 483 shows the classification of ceramic tiles with respect to water
absorption and shaping. Dry pressing and extrusion are two common methods in the forming process for tile
manufacturing. Dry pressed and extruded tiles can be distinguished from the mechanical keys at the back of
the tile as shown in Figure 2.1.b and 2.1.c.

Mechanical key at the back of dry pressed tile  Mechanical key at the back of extruded tile
                   Figure 2.1.b                                  Figure 2.1.c

Once the ceramic tile is produced, it will be cut according to the required dimension. Proper equipment are
required to cut ceramic tiles.

2.1.1. TYPES OF TILE

The choice of tile depends on the location, functional use of the area and, increasingly in recent year,
environmental friendliness. Environmental friendly tiles are certified under the following schemes:

  - Singapore Green Labelling Scheme (SGLS), administered by Singapore Environment Council (SEC).
  - Singapore Green Building Product (SGBP) labelling scheme, administered by Singapore Green Building
		 Council (SGBC).

The various types of tiles include ceramic tile, porcelain tile, rectified tile, quarry (unglazed) tile, etc.

                                                                                                                        3

DESIGN  Ceramic Tiling

2.1.2. Porcelain tiles, a type of Homogeneous tiles, are composed of fine porcelain clays and fired at a much

higher temperature. This makes the porcelain tiles hardier, less porous and thus more resistant to moisture
and stains as compared to ceramic tiles. Porcelain tiles have a consistent colouration and property throughout
the entire section of the tile. They are suitable for use in both indoor and outdoor conditions. Porcelain tiles are
harder to cut due to their density and hardness.

2.1.3. Rectified tile is defined as a tile that has had all edges mechanically finished to achieve a more precise

facial dimension. Unlike a typical factory-edged tile, rectified tile is cut to size after the firing process. This
process creates a precise, 90 degree angle smooth edge; as a result, the tiles can be laid with consistent grout
joints. Most tiles (both homogeneous and ceramic) may vary in size, after being fired, up to 1.0 % of its size. But
the size variations can be substantially minimised through the process of sawing or grinding after the tile is fired.

2.1.4. In recent years, large format ceramic tiles were introduced into the market. While ceramic tile is defined

as having a surface area not more than 3,600cm2 with tile edge less than 600mm, large format ceramic tile
can be defined as having a surface area of more than 3,600cm2 and tile edge of less than 1.2m. The thickness
of these tiles depend on the type and area of usage. They come in wide varieties of styles and lookalike
designs on the surface ranging from concrete, stones to high-polished porcelain. Large format ceramic tiles are
available in any style and color that regular tiles come in.

There is another type of large format ceramic tile known as the large ceramic panel (Figure 2.1.4). A ceramic
panel tile has a surface area of more than 1m2 with tile edge of more than 1.2m. Thin large format panel can be
supplied in 3m length by 1.5m width. They can also be fiberglass reinforced, mechanically cladded and bent.

The constraint of large format ceramic tile is that the wall and floor must be even and level. Therefore, the use
of appropriate adhesive and bedding is important. It is recommended to consult an adhesive supplier when
choosing adhesive for large format panels. The width of the grout joints must also be compatible with the tile
dimension.

                          Large format panel tile - Size can be as large as 3.6m length 1.5m width and only 6mm thick
                                                                       Figure 2.1.4

4

Ceramic Tiling                                                                                                 DESIGN

2.1.5. SELECTION CRITERIA

Prior to starting any tiling works, it is important to ensure that the selected tiles are able to meet the project
specifications. Table 2.1.5 provides guidance on the selection criteria.

Table 2.1.5: Ceramic tile selection criteria

Ceramic tile          Requirements

selection criteria

1. Water absorption - Water absorption in tiles provide a measure of porosity. A high water absorption value indicates
                                  a porous tile body while a low value indicates a compact tile body.

                      - In wet area, tiles with low water absorption should be used.

2. Modulus of         - Modulus of rupture and breaking strength of ceramic tiles give an indication on where the tiles
   rupture and          can be used. (Refer to SS 483).
   breaking strength
                      - Light loading areas are those where normal low-density pedestrian traffic e.g. domestic and
                        office locations, are likely to occur.

                      - Heavy loading areas are those where high density pedestrian traffic, and/or heavy load, are
                        likely to occur, e.g. in industrial and engineering premises.

                      - Tiles that withstand the required loading need to be selected accordingly.

3. Abrasion           - Resistance to deep abrasion of unglazed tiles for floor should refer to ISO 10545-6.
   resistance         - Resistance to surface abrasion of glazed tiles for floor should refer to ISO 10545-7.

4. Slip resistance    - For safety reason, the slip resistance classification needs to be established based on usage
                        of the location. Reference can be made to SS 485:2011.

5. Crazing resistance - If soaking of tiles are required, glazed tiles should be tested to confirm that soaking would not
                                  lead to crazing should refer to ISO 10545-11.

6. Dimensions and     - Tiles used should have adequate dimensional characteristics (length, width, thickness,
   surface quality      straightness or sides, rectangularity, surface flatness) and surface quality to match the design
                        expectation, e.g. joint width, uniformity and alignment.

7. Thickness          - Generally, thin tiles are more vulnerable to impact damage.

                      - Such floor tiles should have a minimum thickness of 8mm for better functional usage.

                      - Ratio of tile thickness to size should be controlled. Thickness of tile should increase following
                        the increase in tile size to avoid cracks.

                      - Nowadays, bigger tiles with thin thickness are being fabricated with greater breaking strength
                        or impact resistance.

                      - Tiles can be tested for impact resistance in accordance to ISO 10545-5.

8. Special            - Stain resistance should be considered for kitchen and supermarket and should refer to ISO
   requirements         10545-14.

                      - Chemical resistance should be considered for laboratories, industrial kitchen and chemical
                        processing plant and should refer to ISO 10545-13.

                                                                                                                           5

DESIGN  Ceramic Tiling

2.2. ADHESIVE BEDDING

Bedding refers to the mortar, or in general terms ‘thin-bed” adhesive, thick bed mortar or levelling bed which
is the screed or render (Figure 2.2). The lower and upper limits of the thickness of the adhesive should be
specified by the manufacturer. Site personnel should follow the manufacturer’s instructions and apply adhesive
only to the specified thickness.

                                                                            Adhesive bedding
                                                                        Figure 2.2

    2.2.1. TYPES OF ADHESIVE

     In accordance to EN 12004/12002 and ISO 13007-1, tile adhesives fall into 3 major categories:
           • Cementitious (Type C): Mixture of hydraulic binding agents, aggregates and additives; to be mixed with

     		 water or other liquid before use.
           • Dispersion (Type D): Mixture of binding agent in the form of polymer dispersion, additives and other

     		 mineral fillers which is ready for use.
           • Reaction-resin (Type R): Mixture of synthetic resins, mineral fillers and additives in which hardening

     		 occurs by chemical reaction.

    2.2.2. ADHESIVES SELECTION

     Some ceramic tiles are highly absorbent. It is important to select the correct adhesive to ensure its performance,
     i.e. to limit water absorption from adhesive to the tiles.
     There is no single formula of adhesive that is compatible with all types of tiles and substrates. It is important to
     note that, depending on the formulator’s technical competence and marketing strategy, products belonging to
     the same type of adhesive could perform significantly differently. Table 2.2.2.a and 2.2.2.b provides suggestions
     on the selection of adhesives.

6

Ceramic Tiling                              DESIGN

Table 2.2.2.a: Adhesive selection criteria

Adhesive selection criteria            Requirements
1. Types of tile
2. Types of substrate                  - The adhesive materials should be compatible with the tiles used.

3.