FOREWORD

The Building and Construction Authority’s (BCA) Construction Quality Assessment
System (CONQUAS) has been widely adopted as the de facto national yardstick
for measuring the quality of building projects. To meet the rising expectations of
homeowners, the Quality Mark (QM) Scheme was launched in 2002 to promote a
higher consistency in workmanship standards for residential developments. Besides
setting standards and measuring the level of workmanship through CONQUAS and
QM, BCA has developed a series of publications of Good Industry Practices Guide for
different trades.

This “Good Industry Practices – Design and Material Selection for Quality – Volume 2”
follows from Volume 1 published in 2008. It shares with the industry some of the good
practices adopted by developers, practitioners and contractors who consistently deliver
high quality work through thoughtful design and choice of materials in construction,
particularly in residential buildings. These practices are drawn largely from projects
that achieved high CONQUAS/QM scores. The examples in this guide highlight some of
these noteworthy projects. While the other guides in the series focus on “doing things
right”, this guide (including Vol. 1) is different in that it focuses on “doing the right thing”
through careful design choices and materials selection.

Some “new” methods and materials are featured in this guide. Comparisons are made
with traditional methods and materials that may have inherent difficulties in achieving
quality. With a renewed long term drive for higher productivity, these new methods and
materials are worth considering to achieve both high quality and productivity.

This guide is not meant to be a definitive textbook on building design and material
selection, nor is it the final word on quality, as there will always be new materials
and methods with changing technology. To obtain more comprehensive information
and guidance, readers should seek advice from professional designers and material
suppliers. We gratefully acknowledge the contributions of the practitioners to this
guide and trust that the industry will find this publication useful in its pursuit of quality
excellence. We welcome any contributions from readers that may improve future
editions of this guide.

Lam Siew Wah
Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Industry Development
Building and Construction Authority

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

This Good Industry Practices Guide – “Design and Material Selection for Quality –
Volume 2” was developed with inputs from Architects, Developers, Builders, Specialist
Contractors and members from various industry associations. A Technical Committee
was then formed to review the contents and good practices identified. We wish to
thank the members of the Technical Committee for their valuable contributions.

Technical Committee:

Chairman   Mr Ding Hock Hui             BCA
                                        BCA
Secretary  Mr Ramamoorthy Rajendran     BCA
                                        BCA
Members    Mr Tan Boon Kee              BCA
                                        REDAS
           Mr Ken Ho Chee Hong          Singapore Institute of Architects
                                        Dragages Singapore Pte Ltd
           Ms Jayanthi d/o Peariahsamy  Woh Hup Pte Ltd
                                        Tiong Seng Contractors Pte Ltd
           Ms Quek Chay Hoon            GeoEng Consultants

           Mr Richard Lai

           Mr George Soh

           Mr Jerry Lam

           Mr Colin Tan

           Mr Jayaraman Adalarasu

We would also like to thank the following organizations and individuals for their
valuable feedback in the review of this guide:

           Mr Eddie Wong                City Developments Ltd
           Mr Kwan Cheng Fai            Singapore Institute of Architects
           Mr Ooi Eng Guan              ChoiceHomes Investments Pte Ltd
           Ms Audrey Perez              Dragages Singapore Pte Ltd
           Ms Trixie Tng                Quarella Composite Stones
           Mr Christopher Tan           Multibuild Pte Ltd
           Ms Jessline Yap              Mapei Far East Pte Ltd
           Mr Wendy Ang                 Laticrete South East Asia Pte Ltd
           Mr Alvin Leow                Faberca Pte Ltd
           Ms Tan Lih Tuan              Sin Kim Heng Marketing Pte Ltd
           Mr Kevin Coburn              Heinrich König & Co. KG
           Mr B.J. Chan                 Design Studio Furniture Ltd
           Mr Antonio Siu               King Wai Group Pte Ltd
           Mr Alfred Lim                GoldField Construction Pte Ltd

Tan Tian Chong
Director
Technology Development Division

                           CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION                                           5

1 AGGLOMERATED MARBLE                                  7

2 ENGINEERED QUARTZ STONE                              17

3 RECTIFIED CERAMIC TILES                              23

4 LIGHTWEIGHT COMPOSITE STONE PANELS                   31

5 BEDDING ADHESIVES FOR STONES AND TILES               37

6 GROUTING FOR STONES AND TILES                        45

7 IMPREGNATORS FOR NATURAL STONES                      51

8 ENGINEERED HARDWOOD FLOOR                            57

9 FILLERS FOR REPAIR AND REINSTATING STONE AND TIMBER  65

10 HONEYCOMB TIMBER DOOR AND INTEGRATED ARCHITRAVE FRAME 75

11 COMPOSITE FIBRE PLASTIC MATERIAL                    81

12 WATERPROOFING OF REINFORCED CONCRETE FLAT ROOF      87

13 M&E FITTINGS AND ACCESSORIES                        93

EXAMPLE PROJECTS                                       103

REFERENCES                                             117

INTRODUCTION

The Building and Construction Authority launched Volume One of the Good Industry
Practices Guide on "Design and Material Selection for Quality" in 2008. The guide
attempted to showcase buildable and constructible designs that facilitate good
workmanship as observed in various projects with high CONQUAS and QM scores.
This includes the use of steel structures, drywall partitions, precast elements,
prefabricated bathrooms and other factory made components for higher productivity,
faster completion time and better build quality. This second volume continues from
where the first volume has left. It now focuses on material selection, primarily the
architectural components, that impacts quality during construction.

Quality often comes at a price. It would be ideal if higher quality can be achieved
without increasing costs. Apart from initial costs, the chosen product must also be
functional, aesthetically pleasing, easy to install and maintain thereafter. Generally,
though not always, the use of higher quality material may incur higher initial cost. This
has to be balanced against possible savings in time (due to ease of installation), better
customer satisfaction (due to better quality workmanship) and lower maintenance
costs during use (due to less defects and durability of the product). Apart from
these, there are other intangible benefits to the developer or builder’s reputation, if
they consistently deliver high quality projects. These factors need to be considered
and balanced against each other when making a choice of which material to use.
For example, some choices highlighted in this guide, like use of special fillers and
techniques to repair and restore stone and timber are costly and are not intended for
ordinary or widespread use. They are presented in this guide to highlight the availability
of such precision techniques which can be utilised where circumstances permit.

Unlike manufacturing, construction is often carried out in an open environment
subject to unpredictable weather conditions and other environmental factors. This
affects productivity and quality outcomes. Build quality is often dependant on the
skill level of the workmen employed and how trade sub-contractors are managed and
co-ordinated. This can be minimized by shifting much of the work to a manufacturing
or factory environment which is not affected by weather conditions and the
processes are largely automated. Thus the use of precisely made factory products
requiring minimal on-site labour for installation will help to raise productivity levels,
ensure better consistency in workmanship and improve overall build quality. This is
evident from the many materials listed in this guide.

1 AGGLOMERATED
          MARBLE

8 • GOOD INDUSTRY PRACTICES

                                           1 AGGLOMERATED MARBLE

1.1 BACKGROUND                             Fig. 1.1 – Raw material for agglomerated marble: Selected marble boulders.

Marble is a metamorphic rock originating
from limestone or calcium carbonate
(CaCo3). Agglomerated marble, also
known as reconstituted or compressed
marble, is produced by binding selected
marble chips (93 to 95%) with specially
formulated resin (7 to 5%). It is one of
alternative choices to natural marble, as
a large part of agglomerated marble
consists of natural marble chips and
therefore possess similar characteristics
of marble.

                                           In natural marble production, large rocks are acquired from quarries. After cutting
                                           the selected rocks, the remaining boulders are classified as residue. In the past,
                                           the excess material was treated as waste or used as substrate for roads. This is
                                           not an efficient use of limited natural resources and does not contribute positively
                                           to environmental sustainability. The need to make full use of the natural stone
                                           substance to produce a product similar to natural marble led to agglomerated
                                           marble as a natural stone substitute.

                                           Fig. 1.2 – Natural marble: Acquired from selected large rocks.

                                           Fig. 1.3 – Agglomerated marble: Produced from selected boulders.

                                                                                                                                                                                  9

1.2 AN OVERVIEW OF A TYPICAL PRODUCTION CYCLE

       1                                           2                                    3

Selected marble boulders are crushed        Marble granules are mixed with       Large marble blocks are produced
                                            specially formulated polyster resin
and sieved into various sizes.              and compacted under vacuum by        and cured for few days.
                                            vibro-compression technology.

       4                                           5                                    6

Cured agglomerated marble blocks            Unpolished slabs are calibrated      Different stages of polishing are
                                            using digital automatic machine to   carried by automatic machines, the
are sawn into slabs.                        ensure uniform size and thickness.   transformation process is closely
                                                                                 similar to natural marble production.

       7                                           8

Cutting into required sizes by a laser      Final sorting, packing in cardboard
machine to ensure dimensional               boxes and stacking on wooden
accuracy.                                   pallets before dispatch.

Fig. 1.4 – Overview of a production cycle.

10 • GOOD INDUSTRY PRACTICES

Marble Boulder  Aggregates                           Proprietary Formula

Mixing→Loading→Moulding             Block            Gang Saw  Un-Polished Slob
Under Vibro-compression

Calibration Polishing               Cutting          Sorting and Packaging

Fig. 1.5 – A schematic outline of production cycle.

1.3 QUALITY FEATURES IN AGGLOMERATED MARBLE

a. Homogeneous body and re-polishable

Agglomerated marble is made of the same materials and the whole body is
homogeneous. Gentle grinding and polishing after installation make the floor
surface smooth and shiny. This same quality finish can still be achieved years after
installation by re-grinding and re-polishing. The measurement of hardness (MOH)
scale for agglomerated marble is just slightly higher than natural marble. Thus,
the tools and equipment used for polishing natural marble can be employed for
agglomerated marble.

Fig. 1.6 – Homogeneous body can be                   Fig. 1.7 – Polishing tools are similar to those for natural marble.
repeatedly polished and renewed.

                                                                                                                                                                                  11

b. Less effort required on dry lay

Most end users especially in residential
developments prefer to have a consistent
colour tone in the finishing work. Dry lay
or pre-selection is not an uncommon
practice when using natural stones. This
is to minimize tonality and other issues
inherent in the natural material. Dry lay is
often a meticulous, time consuming and
labour intensive process, especially in
large scale residential projects. Sufficient
space is also required to carry out this
process. Separate dry lay shop drawings
based on layouts need to be prepared
and the selected marble must be installed
according to the numbered sequence to
ensure consistent results.

                                                                            Fig. 1.8 – Dry lay requires additional manpower and sufficient space for segregation and storage.

                                                                            Fig. 1.9 – Direct installation (without dry lay) saves time and cost in construction.

                                                            The addition of resin and inorganic pigments in agglomerated marble production
                                                            process helps to minimize tone variations in the same batch of production. However
                                                            there may be variations between different batches of production. It is therefore
                                                            advisable that orders be placed for the total requirement for a project, so that the
                                                            manufacturer can blend the raw materials in one batch and minimize the risk of
                                                            tonality differences.

12 • GOOD INDUSTRY PRACTICES
Fig. 1.10 – Sorting stones by production “batch code” to minimize tone varitation.
Fig. 1.11 – Tonality consistency is a key feature in agglomerated marble finish.

                                                                                                                                                                                  13

c. Less inherent imperfections in the surface

The inherent imperfections like open veins, tone variations and pinholes are common in natural stones. These imperfections are
sometimes classified as “defects” by end users. In most situations, it is not easy to rectify these flaws, especially after installation.
Much time and cost need to be expended to address such “imperfections”, apart from the inconvenience to end users. For this reason,
dry laying is often necessary in natural stone works. A well controlled mechanism in the manufacturing process for agglomerated
marble, together with the compressed vacuum technology will reduce concerns like pin holes and open veins in flooring.

   Fig. 1.12 – Difficult to address inherent flaws in natural stones, especially after installation.

1.4 QUALITY CONSIDERATIONS AND PREVENTIVE
MEASURES IN AGGLOMERATED MARBLE

a. Stain ingress and etching

Stains: All natural stones are porous to a certain extent with micro interconnected
capillaries through which liquids and gases can move. Agglomerated marble, although
considered a dense material, have similar porosity characteristics like natural marble
as they are made substantially from the same material. Given sufficient time, liquid
and moisture can penetrate the material and cause staining. Porosity is also affected
by its finish – a highly polished marble is a little harder to penetrate than marble with a
honed (matt) finish. Due to presence of iron in the stone, prolonged exposed to water
may develop stain marks. The other common sources of stains are spillage and ingress
of liquids like juice, coffee, etc.
Etching: Calcite-based stone such as marble, limestone and travertine reacts with
acidic substances on contact, leaving dull marks or even deep furrows over time. This
is known as acid etching. The use of inappropriate materials for maintenance like acidic
or alkalis products can cause such etching. Even mild household acids, including cola,
wine, vinegar, lemon juice and milk, can damage these types of stone. The milder the
acid, the longer it takes to etch; stronger acids can damage the stone in seconds.

   Fig. 1.13 – Liquid ingress and acid reactions are main reasons for stain and etching.

   14 • GOOD INDUSTRY PRACTICES

To prevent strain ingress, it is suggested that a compatible impregnator be applied
on the surfaces of agglomerated marbles. Impregnator is a subsurface treatment,
formulated to penetrate the stone which enhances resistance to stains. The impregnator
will resist stain ingress from top and block entry of salts from bottom. Further information
on impregnators and its application can be found in Chapter 7.

                                                                                              IMPREGNATOR
                                                                                              MARBLE

                                                                                              ADHESIVE
                                                                                              SUBSTRATE

Fig. 1.14 – Application of suitable impregnator enhances stain resistance.

b. Scratch and damage

The Measurement Of Hardness (MOH) scale value for agglomerated marble is about
3.5 to 4.5. This is slightly higher than natural marble (see MOH scale range). The MOH
scale measures material resistance to hardness. A material lower on the MOH scale
will not scratch or cause damage to a material higher on the MOH scale. For example,
a piece of hard plastic (MOH #2) will not scratch calcite (marble) (MOH #3). However,
a grain of sand (MOH #6) will scratch calcite (marble) but not quartz (granite) (MOH
#7). The major composition of agglomerated marble is calcite, hence it tends to get
scratched or damaged if it is exposed in heavy traffic areas. Furthermore during
construction, many activities take place concurrently. Proper protection is therefore
necessary to prevent damage to agglomerated stone by other trades.

Fig. 1.15 – Scratches and damage by other trades during construction.                         MOH SCALE RANGE:
                                                                                                 10 Diamond
                                                                                                 9 Corundum
                                                                                                 8 Topaz
                                                                                                 7 Quartz (Granite)
                                                                                                 6 Feldspar (Granite)
                                                                                                 5 Apatite
                                                                                                 4 Fluorite
                                                                                                 3 Calcite (Most Marbles)
                                                                                                 2 Gypsum
                                                                                                 1 Talc

                                                                                              Agglomerated marble MOH value:
                                                                                              3.5 to 4.5

Fig.