. Introduction                                                             DN

 . Design                                                                   oo ~NODMONMNO

      2.1. General                                                          ©
      2.2. Dimensions and Shape of Precast Elements
     2.3. Concrete Constituents                                         ER  oo
     2.4. Reinforcement
     2.5. Mould Design                                                      ©
     2.6. Joints & Connections
      2.7. Lifting and Handling Devices                                 N
                                                                          IS
 . Fabrication Process
                                                                        NNN
     3.1. General                                                         © Oo Pb
     3.2. Normal Casting Process for Precast Reinforced or Prestressed
                                                                        WwW
             Concrete Elements                                            w
     3.3. Dry Casting Process (Extrusion Method) for Precast Hollow
                                                                        Ww
             Core Elements                                                WwW

 . Delivery, Handling a n d Storage                                     Ww
                                                                          Oo1
     4.1. Delivery
     4.2. Handling                                                      Ww
     4.3. Storage                                                         ©

 . Installation                                                         >
                                                                          N
      5.1. General
      5.2. Installation of Vertical Precast Component                   ~~ bn
      5.3. Installation of Horizontal Precast Component                   NN

 . Quality Inspection                                                   57
                                                                        57
     6.1. General
     6.2. Inspection of Precast Concrete Elements                       64

 . Common Defects                                                       73

     7.1. Common Defects and Remedies

Appendix A-B

References

    1. Introduction

With the advancements in precast technology, precast concrete elements can be manufactured with relatively
straightforward repeated process, in different forms and finishes, to meet the rising expectation for faster construction
and better quality building. In recent years, there has been increased use of precast concrete elements in local
building industry. In tandem with this trend, CONQUAS has incorporated the workmanship standards required for
s u c h elements.
In general, precast concrete elements being manufactured in amore controlled environment, are of better quality
than the cast in-situ elements. However, it is not uncommon to come across major defects such as extensive chip-
off and cracks on these elements, which can result in substantial reworks and rectification cost. It is therefore
practical to address these quality related problems upfront, so as to maximise the benefits of using precast concrete
elements.
This guide highlights the salient quality issues involved in the design, production, delivery, site handling, storage
and installation of precast concrete elements. The requirements and recommendations given are a general
presentation of the important factors that govern the quality of the precast concrete construction.

Due to the volume constraints, this guide will focus on the quality issues pertaining to the use of common precast
concrete elements in residential and institutional projects such as facades, walls, columns, beams and slab panels.
It adopts the quality standards set out in CONQUAS 21 and includes the CONQUAS quality assessment criteria in
the recommended inspection checklists.
References have been made to the other BCA publications on “Structural Precast Concrete Handbook”, “Buildable
Solutions for High-Rise Residential Development”, “Buildable Solutions for Landed Residential Development in
Singapore” and “Good Industry Practices on Waterproofing for External Wall”.

2.1. GENERAL

The design of precast concrete elements involves understanding the method of fabrication, the implicit constraints
as well as the various aspects that facilitate the erection and assembly of these elements on site. Salient guidelines
for the design of precast concrete elements can be found in the Singapore Code of Practices namely CP 6 5 and
CP 81°. In addition to the design and detailing of precast elements, it is important t o carry out design checks on
the overall building stability and robustness of the complete structure as recommended in these codes. The design
should also consider the manufacture, transportation, hoisting and temporary stability of the element and of the
structure during construction.

To achieve good quality precast concrete elements, it is important t o consider the following aspects during the
design stage :

e¢ Dimensions and Shape of Precast Elements  e Mould Design
e Concrete Constituents                      e Joints and Connections
¢ Reinforcement                              e Lifting and Handling Devices

2.2. DIMENSIONS AND SHAPE OF PRECAST ELEMENTS                                                  Figure 2.2 Multi-tier columns

The optimal dimensions of the precast elements largely depend on the
capacity of the lifting cranes at the fabrication yard and site as well as the
transportation limitations. It is however, a good practice t o design for the
largest possible size to minimise jointing and handling. Integration of different
elements, such as the beam-wall system, multi-tier columns and three
dimensional units can be adopted to enhance dimensional controls and
construction quality.

                                                                Where possible, plan for
                                                                appropriate repetition and
                                                                standardisation in the
                                                                dimensions and shape of the
                                                                elements, which is desirable
                                                                for economic of scale and
                                                                quality assurance. Fewer
                                                                mould changes will facilitate
                                                                the production schedule and
                                                                hence reduce construction
                                                                time. Nevertheless, precast
                                                                elements In particular the
                                                                facade and wall panels, can
Figure 2.1 Integrated beam and wall panels be designed and modified
                                                                from t h e typical mould in
different profiles for greater variations as well as to maximise mould usage.
However, care should be taken in the design to consider some forms of
strengthening for panels with significant openings or narrow segment at
the side of the openings, t o prevent cracking or spalling of the elements
during installation.

'Refer t o Singapore Code of Practice for Structural U s e of Concrete — CP 6 5 : Part 1 : 1999 and CP 6 5 : Part 2 : 1996 (1999)

“Refer to Singapore Code of Practice for Precast Concrete Slab and Wall Panels — CP 81 : 1999

PRECAST CONCRETE ELEMENTS | DESIGN

2.3. CONCRETE CONSTITUENTS

Depending on the design requirements, a variety of concrete strengths and characteristics can be used to achieve
optimum performance required of the precast concrete elements. The relevant standards for concrete constituents
are listed in Table 2.1:

Table 2 . 1 R e l e v a n t s t a n d a r d s for concrete c o n s t i t u e n t s

Items         | Relevant Standards                                                  Comment

Concrete Mix  CP 65                 Concrete mix which is composed of portland cement and water
              CP 81                 together with fine and coarse aggregates, should be designed to
              SS 289                achieve the desired workability during concreting, and the durability
                                    and strength required of t h e final precast elements. In general, t h e
                                    m i x should achieve a concrete strength of minimum 1 0 N / m m ’ or
                                    more at early stage for demoulding and higher production efficiency.

Cement        SS 26                 Ordinary portland cement and blended cement are commonly used
                                    in precast concrete production. High alumina cement should not b e
                                    used as it may cause substantial loss in concrete strength and
                                    durability in w a r m , humid conditions.

Aggregates    SS 31                 The maximum size of the coarse aggregates should be established
                                    in t h e design. The size should b e compatible w i t h t h e minimum
                                    dimension and usage of t h e precast elements. As a general guide,
                                    the maximum aggregate size should not b e greater than the specified
                                    cover to reinforcement or tendons. For machine-extruded concrete
                                    such as hollow core slabs, whereby the concrete mix is forced
                                    through rotating augers and steel formers t o create t h e voids, fine
                                    aggregates have t o b e carefully graded. To achieve quality product,
                                    the size of the coarse aggregates should be less than 15 or 20 mm,
                                    depending o n t h e element dimension and machinery type.

Admixtures    SS 3 2 0              Chemical admixtures may be added to enhance the performance of
                                    the concrete mix by reducing the required water content or to
                                    accelerate the rate of early strength development. It is recommended
                                    to carry out trial mixes to determine the optimum design proportion
                                    of admixtures to be added to concrete mix. Appropriate methods
                                    of batching and concreting should be used to ensure correct dosage
                                    so as to avoid any detrimental effects on precast concrete elements.

                                          PRECAST CONCRETE ELEMENTS | DESIGN

2.4. REINFORCEMENT

Apart from concrete constituents, precast concrete elements are often reinforced using welded wire meshes, bars
or prestressing tendons to achieve the required structural capacity. They are required to be designed to meet the
crack control, loading capacity and construction load requirements. The relevant standards for reinforcement and
prestressing tendons are listed in Table 2.2.

Table 2.2 Relevant standards for reinforcement a n d prestressing tendons

Items                 Relevant Standards

Welded Wire Meshes    SS 3 2

Steel Reinforcement   SS 2

Prestressing Tendons  SS 475, CP 65

In designing the reinforcement layout, it is important t o also consider the presence of other cast in-items such as
pipe sleeves or electrical fixtures. The layout design should be simplified wherever possible, t o avoid congestion
which may affect the concrete quality due to poor compaction and loss of concrete cover.

Figure 2.3 Potential congestion at connection where there are reinforcement bars and corrugated pipes sleeves

When the projecting reinforcing bars that are required for lap splicing between elements are excessively long, they
may pose storage and handling problem. In this respect, it is a good practice to adopt mechanical couplers or splice
system to provide for the structural continuity needed.

PRECAST CONCRETE ELEMENTS | DESIGN
Figure 2.4 Long projecting bars may pose storage and handling problems
Figure 2.5 Use of splice sleeve system in place of long projecting reinforced bars

                                                                         PRECAST CONCRETE ELEMENTS | DESIGN

2.5. MOULD DESIGN

Moulds can be made of any suitable materials including steel, timber/plywood, glass
reinforced concrete (GRC) or a combination of these. The selection of the mould
materials will depend on the number of usage, required surface finish type
and quality as well as the shape complexity of the precast elements.

Locally, steel mould is preferred owning to its robustness and precision. In general,

the steel plate thickness adopted for mould design and fabrication varies from a

minimum of 4.5mm to 6mm, which can be used up to 50 ~100 times with proper             Fig 2.6 Example of adjustable
care and maintenance. Besides, the mould should be designed to allow for appropriate   mould for t h e precast b e a m
placing and compaction of the concrete. Adequate number of braces, ties and struts     and column production
should be provided for proper casting and hardening of the concrete. A minimal

number of demountable parts will help to ensure good maintenance of dimensional accuracy during production as

well as to facilitate easy assembly and dismantling. To enhance cost competitiveness, adjustable mould should be

adopted where possible, for greater flexibility and variety in the production of precast concrete elements.

Figure 2.7 Adequate bracing is required for better dimensional controls

Figure 2.8 Examples of battery moulds and mechanised vertical moulds used for wall elements

PRECAST CONCRETE ELEMENTS | DESIGN

For the production of standard elements such as refuse chutes and parapet walls, battery moulds or mechanised
vertical moulds can be used for better quality and productivity.

2.6. JOINTS & CONNECTIONS

Joints and connections must be designed to adequately transfer the loads from a precast concrete element to the
supporting structure or to an adjacent element to form the structure. They have to meet the design and performance
criteria such as strength, ductility, fire resistance, durability and stability. Apart from these structural requirements,
due considerations should be given to the production and erection process of the elements. To achieve a practical
and satisfactory connection, the following items should be considered in the design :
e Standardise the joint and connection types and details
e¢ Avoid congestion at joints
e Avoid penetration of forms
e Allow for production and erection tolerances
e Plan for easy assembly and accessibility
A compilation of connection and jointing details commonly used can be found in other BCA publications - “Structural
Precast Concrete Handbook”, “Buildable Solutions for High-Rise Residential Development” and “Buildable Solutions
for Landed Residential Development in Singapore”.
Recommendations on watertightness details and workmanship standards for external wall can be obtained from
BCA's Good Industry Practices on Waterproofing for External Wall.

Figure 2.9 Examples of joints and connections between different precast elements

                                                                                                  PRECAST CONCRETE ELEMENTS | DESIGN

2.7. LIFTING AND HANDLING DEVICES

In precast concrete construction, lifting and handling devices are required and placed within the elements to facilitate
the demoulding, handling and erection processes. The type, number and location of these temporary lifting and
handling devices play an important role, in ensuring that the precast elements are not excessively stressed during
lifting operation and before jointing works commenced. The factors to be considered are as follows:
e (Capacity of the lifting and handling devices
e \Weight and shape of the precast elements
e Strength of the concrete at the time of lifting
e Position of any opening or cut-out in the precast elements
¢ Rigging arrangement
e Type of lifting clutch, hook or shackle used for handling and installation

Figure 2.10 Lifting and handling devices are required t o facilitate t h e erection process

PRECAST CONCRETE ELEMENTS | DESIGN
Lifting and handling devices can be prestressing strands or cable loops projecting from the elements, coil threaded
inserts or proprietary lifting devices. Prestressing strands or cable loops should be designed with adequate safety
factors before use. Reinforcing bars unless specifically designed, should not be used as lifting loops as they are
susceptible to breakage during hoisting operations in view of their low ductility.
Where possible, these lifting and handling devices should be placed at locations that require little or no patching
after use. If they are required t o be located on the finished face of architectural component such as facade wall
panels, it will be good to provide recesses. These recesses can then be filled up with proper grout after installation
to achieve better wall finishes.

Figure 2.11 Different types of devices for lifting operation and temporary support

Figure 2.12 Provisionof lifting anchor with recess former for better finishes
It is a good practice to adopt proprietary lifting devices that come with specified design load capacity for safe and
efficient handling. These devices normally come with proper accessories t o form recesses, which can be easily
patched up after installation.

3. Fabrication Process

3.1. GENERAL

Before fabrication, shop drawings of individual precast elements are required t o be prepared and detailed with the
following information :

® Project location, reference number of elements, and their locations with respect to the building layout and elevation
e Dimensions of elements, centre of gravity, weight and concrete volume
e | ocations of all reinforcing steel, cast-in items for connection, lifting and bracing
e | ocations of embedded items such as service conduits, blockouts and recesses as well as openings
e Jointing and interfacing details between elements
e \Natertightness details at joints
e Architectural details and treatments where applicable

Any discrepancies among the architectural, structural and production requirements should be resolved before
confirming these drawings for fabrication to minimise abortive works.

Generally, there are two main types of precast concrete elements, namely precast reinforced concrete elements
and precast prestressed concrete elements.

                                         Precast Reinforced   Consist of reinforcement bars and/or
                                                              welded wire meshes within the elements
                                         Concrete Elements    to provide the tensile strength and
                                                              resistance against cracks
            Precast Concrete                                  E x a m p l e s a r e f a c a d e walls, beams,
                                                              columns, slabs, refuse chutes, staircases
                    Elements                                  and parapet walls

Concrete components of a building                             Consist of prestressing tendons within the
that are prefabricated in precast                             elements to provide a predetermined force
yard or site. They are to be installed                        needed to resist external loadings and
to their final position in the building                       cracks
during construction.