Foreword

The Building and Construction Authority’s (BCA) Construction Quality Assessment System
(CONQUAS) has been widely adopted as the de facto national yardstick for measuring the quality
of building projects. Besides setting standards and measuring the level of workmanship through
CONQUAS, BCA is developing a series of publications of Good Industry Practices Guide for different
trades.

This “Good Industry Practices – Design and Material Selection for Quality – Volume 1” shares with
the industry some of the good practices adopted by developers, practitioners and contractors who
consistently deliver high quality work through thoughtful design and choice of materials in construction,
particularly in residential buildings. These practices are taken from projects that achieved high
CONQUAS/Quality Mark scores. The examples in this guide highlight some of these noteworthy
projects. While the other guides in the series focus on “doing things right”, this guide focuses on
“doing the right thing” through careful design choices and materials selection.

This guide is not meant to be a deﬁnitive textbook on building design and material selection to achieve
high quality. Neither is it the ﬁnal word on quality, as there will be new materials and methods. To
obtain more comprehensive information and guidance, readers should seek advice from professional
designers and material suppliers. We gratefully acknowledge the contributions of these practitioners
and trust that the industry will ﬁnd this publication useful in its pursuit of quality excellence. We
welcome any contributions from readers that may add to or improve future editions of this guide.

Lam Siew Wah

Deputy Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Industry and Corporate Development
Building and Construction Authority

Acknowledgement

This Good Industry Practices Guide – “Design and Material Selection for Quality – Volume 1” was
developed with inputs from Architects, Developers, Builders, Specialist Contractors and members
from various industry associations.

We would like to thank the following ﬁrms for their support, contributions and sharing of knowledge
in making this possible:

Ando Singapore Pte Ltd
City Developments Ltd
Dragages Singapore Pte Ltd
Far East Organization
Kajima Overseas Asia Pte Ltd
Shimizu Corporation (Singapore)
Sumitomo Mitsui Construction Co, Ltd
Tiong Seng Contractors (Pte) Ltd
Woh Hup (Pte) Ltd

We would also like to thank the following organizations and individuals for their valuable feedback in
the review of this guide:

Boral Plasterboard (Singapore)
CapitaLand Residential Ltd
Design Studio Furniture Ltd
DP Architects Pte Ltd
Eastern Pretech Pte Ltd
Singapore Contractors Association Ltd
Singapore Institute of Building Ltd
Team Design Architects Pte Ltd
Wheelock Properties (Singapore) Limited
Wing Tai Property Management Pte Ltd
Yongnam Holdings Ltd
Mr Colin Tan
Mr George Soh
Mr Roger Lai
Dr Uma Maheswaran

Tan Tian Chong

Director
Technology Development Division

                                          GOOD INDUSTRY PRACTICES
DESIGN AND MATERIAL SELECTION FOR QUALITY - VOLUME 1

CONTENTS

Introduction                                                        5

1.0 An Overview of Buildable Design and Quality                     7

2.0 Inﬂuence of Layouts/Shapes on Quality and Constructability      15

3.0 Quality Issues in Conventional Methods & Materials              21

4.0 Quality Features in Structural Elements                         29

4.1 Steel Structures
4.2 Precast Concrete Elements

5.0 Quality Features in Architectural Elements                      47

5.1 Prefabricated Bathrooms
5.2 Drywall Partitions

6.0 Design and Detailing for Quality in Architectural Components    73

6.1 Timber Doors
6.2 Cabinets and other Components

7.0 Design and Detailing for Quality at Adjoining Locations/Trades  91

7.1 Architectural Finishes
7.2 Embedded /Concealed Services

8.0 Example Projects                                                109

References and Further Reading                                      117

                                                                                                            5

                                                          INTRODUCTION

Since 1999, the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) have produced a series of 9 Good Industry
Practices Guides. These guides detail work processes and methods of installation for various ﬁnishing
trades e.g. ceramic tiling, timber ﬂooring, waterprooﬁng works, etc. If the guidelines are followed
closely, one can expect the resultant end product to be a high quality building of workmanship
excellence. These guides have been used as reference standards in quality assessments under
BCA’s CONQUAS or Quality Mark (QM) schemes.

While it is possible to achieve high quality standards by following closely these guides, sometimes
the proper design, detailing or choice of material can often reduce the time and effort required during
construction to achieve the same or better end result. Some conventional methods, materials or
designs may require the employment of more skilled workers to work in difﬁcult circumstances and
therefore take a longer time to complete the works. Such skilled workers are invariably in short supply
and as projects usually have to be completed within very tight schedules, workmanship quality is
often sacriﬁced.

Good design is an integral and essential part of construction. Good design facilitates construction work
to be carried out optimally within time and cost constraints. It addresses the following aspects:
• Safety
• Meeting end–user’s needs
• Functionality
• Build Quality
• Buildability
• Sustainability
• Aesthetics

To strike a balance in all the aspects and achieve good quality in the ﬁnal product, plans and
speciﬁcations should be carefully designed, reviewed at each stage and corrected before construction
starts. Overlooking any of these may result in additional time and cost to rectify the works.

This guide attempts to distill many good design practices and material choices observed in various
CONQUAS and QM projects that have achieved workmanship quality excellence as reﬂected in
their high CONQUAS/ QM scores. Industry professionals can learn and apply these practices in
their projects for better quality achievement. As each building’s design objective may be different
from another, it may be necessary to be selective or customize the mentioned practices to meet the
speciﬁc needs of the project. This guide has made comparisons with some designs choices that may
be difﬁcult to build or has inherent difﬁculties in achieving quality. This does not mean such designs
cannot be employed. It only means that more time, attention and higher cost may be incurred to
achieve the same quality result.

This guide is the ﬁrst of 2 volumes and focuses on good design choices for workmanship excellence.
The subsequent volume will cover other design choices and material selection that impacts quality.

                          1.0

                           AN OVERVIEW OF
BUILDABLE DESIGN AND QUALITY

8

    1.0 AN OVERVIEW OF BUILDABLE DESIGN AND QUALITY

      “Buildabilty” is the extent to which the design of a building facilitates ease of construction.
      Buildable design often has a direct implication on quality achievement in a project. Projects with
      better quality performance (as measured by CONQUAS- Construction Quality Assessment System)
      invariably are also those that had adopted good buildable designs. Examples of such projects,
      which can be found in I-QUAS (Information on Construction Quality-ref: www.bca.gov.sg) include
      commercial, residential, institutional and mixed developments like The Esparis, Monterey Park,
      Savannah Park, The Pier, Icon, One Marina and ITE Simei.
      The developer, designer and builder each has a signiﬁcant role towards achieving better buildable
      design and quality in construction. This chapter illustrates examples of good buildable designs and
      its contribution to quality.

        Fig. 1.1 - Examples of projects with good buildable designs and high quality performance scores.

                                                                                                            9

                           1.0 AN OVERVIEW OF BUILDABLE DESIGN AND QUALITY

1.1 EXAMPLES OF GOOD BUILDABLE DESIGNS
The following are examples from residential projects that adopted good design concepts such as
ﬂat plate slab, curtain wall, drywall partitions, prefabricated bathrooms, screed-less ﬂoor, etc. All
these buildable systems facilitate ease of construction leading to good quality workmanship.

                    Drywall

Flat plate slab                                                                Prefabricated bathrooms

Precast shear wall                                                             Screed-less ﬂoor

                    Curtain wall

Fig. 1.2 - Buildable systems contribute to efﬁcient and quality construction.

10

    1.0 AN OVERVIEW OF BUILDABLE DESIGN AND QUALITY

1.1.1 Flat plate slab                              Fig. 1.3 - Flat plate slab: No secondary beams,
                                                   less joints and better ﬁnish.
The ﬂoor slab has no intermediate or secondary
beams. This improves the construction cycle
time and productivity. The quality of the slab
surface is also better as there are less joints
in the system formwork. The M&E system
can be accommodated easily under the slab
since there are no intermediate beams causing
obstructions.

1.1.2 Drywall partitions

Drywall partitions have many advantages
compared to conventional wet trade partitions.
Quality ﬁnish, speed of construction, ease of
installation and reconstruction are the key
attractions. See Chapter 5.2 for more details of
its features and advantages.

1.1.3 Prefabricated bathrooms                      Fig. 1.4 - Drywall partitions: Increasing use in
                                                   residential building construction.
Bathrooms are prefabricated in a factory and
installed on site. This innovative method results  Fig. 1.5 - Prefabricated bathrooms: Improved
in better tolerances and the workmanship is        technology for quick installation
signiﬁcantly better than conventional bathroom
construction. The off-site production often
makes the manufacture of the bathroom no
longer a critical activity that may affect other
construction works on site. The different
techniques in production and installation are
explained in Chapter 5.1.

                                                                                                           11

                           1.0 AN OVERVIEW OF BUILDABLE DESIGN AND QUALITY

1.1.4 Screed-less ﬂooring
A combination of suitable adhesives and a
leveled concrete ﬂoor slab makes the system
practical. Using this method, screeding, one of
the “messy” trade in ﬂooring installation, can
be eliminated. Hollowness in ﬂooring, which
is caused mainly by incompatibility between
substrate and screed, can also be minimized.

                                                                                         Fig. 1.6 - Screed-less ﬂooring installation: Better
                                                                                         productivity and quality.

1.1.5 Curtain wall
The fabrication of curtain wall components are carried out in the factory and this reduces site work and
allows greater control over component quality. The site operations require only installation works. The
process of installation is much faster compared to wet trade methods. Since the method of assembly
is a dry process, the required tolerances and workmanship can be controlled closely. When selecting
curtain wall system, considerations should be given to sustainability and environmental factors such
as using Low-E glass panels.

   Fig. 1.7- Curtain wall systems: Saves time, better quality facade
    Curtain walls
    • No scaffolding
    • No wet trades
    • Less workmanship issues

12

    1.0 AN OVERVIEW OF BUILDABLE DESIGN AND QUALITY

1.1.6 Modular system walls

The modular system RC (Reinforced Concrete)
perimeter walls have less joints and the surfaces
are smoother. A thin skim-coat is sufﬁcient to
carry the ﬁnal architectural ﬁnish. Construction
is neater and productivity higher compared to
conventional walls. This system reduces risk of
hollowness, surface cracks and unevenness in
wall surface, which are usually associated with
plastered ﬁnish walls.

                                                   Fig. 1.8 - Less joints and good surface ﬁnish in modular
                                                   system RC walls

1.1.7 Precast shear walls

The precast shear wall system eliminates inﬁll work like brick or block work and wet trades like
plastering. External walls have better water tightness against the elements. Proper design and
execution of precast system will give good quality ﬁnish surfaces that require minimum preparatory
work before painting. Gondolas, instead of scaffolding, can be used to carry out the ﬁnishing work;
this saves costs and expedites the construction process. Other features and advantages of using
precast elements are highlighted in Chapter 4.2.

Fig. 1.9 - External shear walls: Better            Fig. 1.10 - No scaffolding and plastering required
water - tightness                                  to get ﬁnal ﬁnish.

                                                                                                           13

                           1.0 AN OVERVIEW OF BUILDABLE DESIGN AND QUALITY

Good buildable design requires careful consideration and planning. It should lead to designs that
improve construction processes, ease of construction, reduced dependency on on-site manpower
and improved quality. Although the initial cost of construction of buildable designs may be higher
than conventional methods in some cases, consideration should be given to its beneﬁts of higher
productivity, faster completion time and better build quality.

                            2.0

INFLUENCE OF LAYOUTS/SHAPES ON
  QUALITY AND CONSTRUCTABILITY

16

    2.0 INFLUENCE OF LAYOUTS/SHAPES ON QUALITY AND CONSTRUCTABILITY

        Straightforward and uncomplicated design layouts and shapes facilitate ease of construction and
        maintenance, enhance productivity and lead to better quality workmanship. There is reduced need
        for closer co-ordination between trades and hence less dependency to achieve the desired build
        quality. This becomes more signiﬁcant where mass production is involved. This chapter shows some
        examples of layouts, shapes and details and their inﬂuence on quality and constructability.

        2.1 ADVANTAGES OF CLEAR-CUT
                 LAYOUT

        Layouts of regular shapes and without tight
        corners facilitate ease of construction. It is
        easier to achieve the desired workmanship
        quality in the ﬁnishing work.

                                                                                                   Fig. 2.1 - Regular layout with less tight-corners is
                                                                                                   easier to build and achieve quality.

       2.1.1 Less corners and turns – Ease of architectural works
        Layouts with standard room dimensions, less corners and turns facilitate execution of ﬁne architectural
        ﬁnishing works like skirtings, painting, silicon seals, etc. The ease of working over straight surfaces
        results in consistent and better workmanship. The beneﬁts are enhanced where there is repetition
        of similar design at every ﬂoor.

             Fig. 2.2 - Less corners and turns: Easier to carry out architectural ﬁnishing works.

                                                                                                           17

         2.0 INFLUENCE OF LAYOUTS/SHAPES ON QUALITY AND CONSTRUCTABILITY

2.1.2 Regular shapes suit prefabricated components
Regular shapes that are used repeatedly generally facilitate prefabricated components like curtain-
walls, full height windows and drywall partitions to be used. Such factory made components have
better dimensional accuracy and assembly tolerances can be better controlled during erection. This
leads to considerable reduction in site manpower and better quality output.

   Fig. 2.3 - Regular and repeated shapes suit prefabricated components.

2.2 QUALITY AND CONSTRUCTABILITY CHALLENGES OF CREATIVE SHAPES
         AND LAYOUTS IN INTERNAL FINISHES

Creative layouts (see Fig. 2.4) generally have more turns and joints. It poses a greater challenge
to complete the architectural works in internal ﬁnishes with the desired quality. More thought and
attention need to be paid to interfacing details, where one trade interfaces with another e.g. joining
of marble and timber ﬂoor, termination of wet and dry areas, etc. In addition, ﬁne architectural works
like skirting installation, silicone application to gaps and ﬁllings, need to be executed carefully within
the constraints of the unique shape or layout. In many cases, using traditional wet trades that involve
intricate manual cutting of materials to suit the shape or layout may make it more difﬁcult to achieve
workmanship quality in addition to slowing the progress of the works.

                                                                      This has become more signiﬁcant in residential
                                                                      properties where end-users’ expectations are
                                                                      higher. Furthermore, more combination of
                                                                      material ﬁnishes and ﬁttings are involved in
                                                                      residential buildings than commerical buildings.
                                                                      Hence clear-cut layouts, precise detailing and
                                                                      right sequence of execution are key factors to
                                                                      achieve desired quality in internal ﬁnishes.

   Fig. 2.4 - Creative shapes and layouts : A challenge
   in ﬁnishing ﬁne architectural details.

18

    2.0 INFLUENCE OF LAYOUTS/SHAPES ON QUALITY AND CONSTRUCTABILITY

Fig. 2.5 - More attention/skill needed to get ﬁnal  Fig. 2.6 - Too many skirting pieces/joints to get the
shape and ﬁnish.                                    required proﬁle.

Fig. 2.7 - Small recesses: Difﬁcult to carry out    Fig. 2.8 - Protrusions in aluminium capping due to
works like skirting, etc.                           too many jointing segments.

Fig. 2.9 - Circular columns with masonry ﬁnishes    Fig.2.10 - Skirting requires many small segments
require more preparation time.                      to form curve.

                                                                                               19

2.0 INFLUENCE OF LAYOUTS/SHAPES ON QUALITY AND CONSTRUCTABILITY

Fig. 2.11 - Circular column abuts wall: Jointing line  Fig.2.12- Marble needs to be cut manually to suit
is a challenge to ﬁnish.                               proﬁle.

The above examples are not meant to discourage professionals from creative designs. The emphasis
here is to highlight the challenges posed by creative shapes and layouts and its impact on quality and
constructability, particularly where a project has a large number of units which needs to be completed
within a limited time frame. In addition, workers with the right training and skills are needed to carry
out the ﬁne architectural ﬁnishing works. Apart from employing workers with the appropriate skills,
the builder also needs to carefully organize and sequence the works so as not to impact construction
progress and its quality.

                             3.0

                                    QUALITY ISSUES IN
CONVENTIONAL METHODS & MATERIALS

22

    3.0 QUALITY ISSUES IN CONVENTIONAL METHODS & MATERIALS

        Conventional designs that comprise beams, columns, brick/block inﬁlls and plastering have inherent
        inefﬁciencies during construction. Brick/block wall inﬁlls are labour-intensive and cement-sand
        plastering, a wet process, is often messy and requires more preparatory work.